



Wild Bunch, The (1969) movie script - Screenplays for You















Screenplays for You - free movie scripts and screenplays                    





About


Links









Screenplays, movie scripts and transcripts organized alphabetically:


#
ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ

PDF


ALL



Wild Bunch, The (1969)by Sam Peckinpah.More info about this movie on IMDb.comFOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES ONLY 






Unchanged men in a changing land. Out of step, out  of  place  and
desperately  out  of  time...  Suddenly  a  new  West had emerged.
Suddenly it was sundown for nine men. Suddenly their day was over.
Suddenly, the sky was bathed in blood.


Bank Robbery


1 The cavalry (Credits)

(The wild bunch in military uniforms  rides  into  the  town  (San
Rafael (name on a house), Starbuck).
Children, including girls, throwing scorpions into an anthill.
An assembly of the temperance union.
Bounty hunters (Thornton) are lurking on the roof of a house).
Pastor:
(during  the speach members of the wild bunch are riding into town
in army uniforms, others, also in army uniforms are waiting in the
town. The scene is often interrupted by credits)
"Do not drink wine nor strong drink
thou not thy sons with thee
lest ye shall die."
(Leviticus 10.9, unfair quote:  "Do  not  drink  wine  nor  strong
drink,  ...  when  ye  go  into the tabernacle of the congregation
...")
"Look not thou upon the wine when it is read
and when it brings his color in the cup, when moves itself aright
at the last it bites like a serpent and stings like an adder."
(Proverbs 23.31ff)
Now folks ...
that's from the Good Book
but in this town it's five cent a glass.
Five cents a glass.
Does anyone really think that is the price of a drink?
The price of a drink? Let him decide who has lost his courage  and
pride who lies a groveling heap of clay not far removed...
'Soldier': All's quiet, sir
PIKE: Let's fall in.
(We investigate with Pike's eyes the town)
Follow me.
(Running into an old woman)
I beg your pardon, Madam.
Madam: I'm so sorry.
DUTCH: (smiling) Allow me Madam.
Madam: Thank you.
PIKE: (offers her his arm) May I.
Madam: Thank you.

(Cut to the Bounty hunters on the roof of a building):
Harrigan: Thornton, wake up. Soldiers. Take a look

(Inside the bank office):
Old employee: I don't care what you meant to do, it's what you did
I don't like.
You inconvenienced this lady, and made a fool of yourself and this
railroad.
Now I want you to apologize to this ...
(wild bunch entering the bank office)
Yes, can I help you?
PIKE: If they move kill them.

END OF THE CREDITS;

(Cut to the Bounty hunters on the roof of a building):
Harrigan: Is he with them?
THORNTON: He is there.
(The  bounty  hunters  move  into  their  shooting  position, very
nervous, from the street you can see the movement on the roof.)
Harrigan: Hold your fire. Get down.
Wait till they come out.
Coffer: (laughing) I can nail him.
THORNTON: I said wait.
T.C.: What if they go out the back?
Coffer: It's covered. You two bit redneck peckerwood.

(Inside the bank):
PIKE: (organizing his men) Abe
(Angel is controlling the street and the roofs)


2 Temperance parade

(Angel, later the Gorch brothers detect the bounty hunters,  while
the temperance union is marching along the street).

Pastor: I solemnly promise God helping me ...
People: I solemnly promise God helping me ...
Pastor:  to  abstain  from  all  distilled, fermented malt liquors
including wine beer and cider.
People: to abstain from liquor, including wine beer and cider.

(Begin of the Temperance Parade)
SONG: (accompanied by music until the shooting starts)
Yes we'll gather at the river
the beautiful, beautiful river
gather with the saints at the river
that flows by the throne of God.

ANGEL: People singing marching down the street. They'll  pass  the
horses.
PIKE: We'll join them.
DUTCH: (laughing) The temperance union.

THORNTON: They should have been told.
Harrington: Told what?
How long can anybody in this manure pile keep his mouth shut.

[2min 23 seconds pass from here until the shooting starts]
ANGEL: Rifles
PIKE: One?
ANGEL: No, three.
(Pike goes to Angel)
Maybe more, there on the roof.
Pike: Son of a bitch.
(Pike is organizing his men for the outbreak ...)
Man: What are they? Bounty hunters.
PIKE:
Hell, I do not know.
Buck with Ape.
Ape: I kill them now.
PIKE:  No  hold  them  here  as  long  as  you can until after the
shooting starts.
Ape: I'll hold them till hell freezes over or you say different.
PIKE: When I kick him out, blast him. we'll make a run for it.
Man: (to Ape) Give me that shotgun.

(People singing, bounty hunters and wild bunch preparing to fight,
you hear heartbeat, see faces, THORNTON,  Harrigan  and  the  wild
bunch concentrated, the bounty hunters nervous.)


3 Blowing this town to hell

(The  bounty hunters on the roof are shooting into the people, the
wild bunch is using the chaos to escape on their horses, Ape makes
terror against the unarmed people in the office).

(Pike throws the old employee out of the office onto  the  street,
the  bounty  hunters open fire at the employee, showing themselves
on the roof. The wild bunch opening fire at  the  bounty  hunters,
scoring several hits.)

[3 min 36 seconds until Thornton commands ceasing fire]
PIKE: Let's go.
Ape: (His gun returned by the man) Good luck boys.

(The wild bunch except Ape leaving the office, using people on the
street as shields)

(Ape's  sequence is paralell to the 5 minutes of shooting. You see
that now the bounty hunters score hits on the fleeing wild  bunch,
some  men  from the town participate on the shooting, but most are
victims, like the temperance parade. Thornton shoots  one  musican
when he tries to hit Pike. Horses are crashing through windows. In
one  scene  Ethan,  a  member of the wild bunch is hit by a bullet
shot from a man on a wagon in the  face.  L.  Gorch  reverses  his
horse just to shoot this man.)

Ape: They're blowing this town to hell.
Old Woman: (the one from the first sequence) You're trash.
Ape: (kissing old woman) Now, you just hush now.
They was playing 'Gather at the river'.
You know that one.
Sing it!
3 people in office: (singing)
Shall we gather at the river
where bright angel feet have trod
Ape: River that flows by the throne of God

PIKE: (to DUTCH, who lost his horse in the battle)
Come on you lazy bastard.
DUTCH: I'm coming.

THORNTON: They've cleared out, for Christ's sake.
Coffer: Let's go T.C.

Scene sequence:
00:00
SOUND:   Simulated   heartbeat  pounding  and  the  music  of  the
temperance parade.
CUT: (from outside) Pike with a gun pointing at the  old  employee
at the door.
CUT: Dutch looking, automatic pistol in his hand.
CUT: (from inside) Pike and employee at the door.
CUT: Wild bunch members preparing their guns.
CUT: (from inside) Pike and employee at the door.
CUT: Dutch looking, automatic pistol in his hand.
CUT: Angel and Lyle looking at the street.
CUT: Man in uniform of the wild bunch combat ready.
CUT: Man without uniform (Ethan) combat ready.
CUT: Ape (Crazy Lee) nodding toward his hostages.
CUT: Hostages frightend.
CUT: (from outside) Pike and employee at the door.
CUT: Temperance parade.
CUT: Pike throwing the employee out of the door, Lyle and Angel in
the background.
00:23
CUT: Musicans of the temperance parade looking at the employee.
CUT: (seen from behind) Bounty hunters raising and opening fire.
CUT: Man at a horse looking up to the roof, to the bounty hunters.
CUT: Employee gets hit several times.

(repeated  several  times,  only  few  picures  each,  less than a
second:)
CUT: (frontal) Wild bunch opening fire at bounty hunters.
CUT: Glas shatters from the shoots of the wild bunch.

00:31
CUT: (frontal) Bounty hunters raising.
CUT: (frontal) Wild bunch shooting at bounty hunters.
CUT: (frontal) One bounty hunter gets hit.
CUT: (from behind) Dead  bounty  hunter  falling  and  the  others
looking for cover.
CUT: (Pike: "Let's go.") (frontal) Wild bunch in the office.
CUT: Dutch - face.

00:37
CUT: (frontal) Wild bunch running out of the office, shooting.
CUT: (from behind) Bounty hunters shooting.
CUT: Gorch brothers shooting from the cover of their horses.
CUT: (frontal) Bounty hunter hit - falling ....
CUT: Lyle Gorch running and shooting.
CUT: (frontal) Bounty hunter hit - ... from the roof.
SWING:  picture  is  swinging  quickly through the street with the
wild bunch...

(repeated)
CUT: (frontal) ANGEL shooting.
CUT: (frontal) Bounty hunter hit - ... from the roof.
CUT: (frontal) another bounty hunter hit.

00:47
CUT: Thornton shooting from side.
CUT: (side) Bounty hunter hit - ... from the roof. (see  that  the
street  is  a  fake  -  his  fall continues below the level of the
street)
CUT: (frontal) ... bounty hunter hit.
CUT: Dutch running out of the office shooting.
CUT: (frontal) old 'soldier' shooting from behind a door.
CUT: (side) Thornton shooting.
CUT: Dutch shooting, in the background two women.
CUT: Musicans running in the background roof with bounty hunters.
CUT: (Crazy Lee: "Good luck boys.") Receiving his gun again.
CUT: Ethan and Pike leaving the office.
CUT: T.C. shooting.
CUT: ... and missing Pike.
CUT: Dutch shooting, behind him women and old men looking  shelter
behind barrels, Pike appears behind Dutch.

01:00
CUT: (side) Thornton shooting.
CUT:  ...  missing  Dutch,  who  is  now in between the temperance
parade.
CUT: (side) Pike running.
CUT: (frontal) Pike running into the temperance parade.
CUT: Man running into Ethan.
CUT: 'Soldier' coming out of the office, shooting.
CUT: Three bounty hunters, Harrigan on the roof, shooting.
CUT: 'Soldier' on horse rides straight into the people.
CUT: ... people stretch their arms for protection.
CUT: People running, wounded, a woman holds  a  man,  a  'soldier'
shooting at the bounty hunters.
CUT: Three bounty hunters, Harrigan on the roof, shooting.
CUT: ... the man, who was held by the woman got hit again.
01:16
CUT: Rider under a balcony.
CUT: Man on the balcony loading his gun.
CUT: ... woman falls together with man on the street.
CUT:  (from  behind)  Ape  (Crazy  Lee)  looking out to the street
("They are blowing this town to hell.")
ZOOMING AWAY: A dead body on the street, people  running  in  each
direction,  Pike  shooting  with  his  pistol  against  the bounty
hunters.
CUT: (from the street) Roof with shooting bounty hunters.
CUT: a 'soldier' takes an old woman as cover.
CUT: (frontal) Thornton looking down, shooting.
CUT: ... 'soldier' gets hit.
CUT: Bounty hunter beside Thornton get hit.
CUT: People on the street running.
CUT: Three bounty hunters, Harrigan on the roof, shooting.
CUT: ... man gets hit.
01:37
CUT: (Office:) Woman to Ape: "You're trash."
CUT: (frontal) Crazy Lee ...
CUT: Man crawling on the street.
CUT: Rider, horse neighs, shoots up straight through the boards.
CUT: Man on the balcony shoots straight through the boards.
CUT: Rider sees the shootin, galopps away.
CUT: Man on the balcony runs to the end  of  the  balcony  to  get
again into shooting position.
CUT: Rider in an empty street, in the background the main street.
01:49
SWING: People on the main street, running, dying.
CUT: Pike gets on his horse.
CUT: Ethan looking.
CUT: People on the main street, running, dying, a rider.
CUT: Man on the balcony shoots a rider.
CUT: ... he smashes through the glas of a woman-clothes store.
CUT: (frontal) Thornton shooting.
CUT: (frontal) ... Dutch's horse got hit.
CUT: ... man falls through the glas continued...
CUT: ... Dutch falling ...
CUT: ... man falls through the glas continued...
CUT: ... Dutch falling (other angle) ...
CUT: ... man falls through the glas continued...
02:02
CUT: Crazy Lee kissing the old woman hostage.
CUT: Angel fights his way through the street.
CUT: Harrigan shooting:
CUT:  ...  a  man  hit in the back, a little girl knees beside him
crying.
CUT: Crazy Lee: They was playing "Gather at the river."
CUT: (frontal) "Sing it"
CUT: Hostages sing 'Gather at the river'.
CUT: (frontal) Happy face of Crazy Lee.
02:24
CUT: People running on the main street.
CUT: 'Soldier', behind a door shooting.
CUT: (side) Thornton shooting, an empty patron  rolling  over  his
hat.
CUT: Woman run to the door behind the 'soldier'.
CUT: Musicans in the foreground of the picture.
CUT: Pike puts the 'money' on his horse.
CUT: Thornton sees Pike.
CUT: Pike Recognizes Thornton.
CUT: Thornton shoots ...
CUT: ... and hits a musican.
CUT: Pike shoots ...
CUT: ... and hits the bounty hunter right side of Thornton.
CUT: Pike tries to get his horse under control.
CUT: Thornton wants to shoot at Pike but his gun is empty.
CUT: Dutch (on a horse) shoots at the bounty hunters.
CUT:  Bounty hunters seek cover behind the roof and then open fire
again.
02:43
CUT: People on the streets running. The old  'soldier'  now  on  a
horse got hit.
CUT: Crazy Lee and his hostages "Gather at the river".

(repeated)
CUT: Main street. Riders and remains of the temperance parade.
CUT: Thornton, looking for a target.

CUT: Pike, under his horse a women, the horse moving uncontrolled,
killing the woman ...
CUT: ... Woman lying in the dust.
CUT: Pike looks back.
CUT: (side) Bounty hunters on the roof shooting.
CUT: (from behind) Wild bunch riding away through the main street.
CUT:  Two  little  children at a wall holding each other while the
riders pass them by and the shooting continues.
03:04
CUT: Thornton shooting.
CUT: Man falls from the horse, not giving away the bags with  'the
money' and being dragged by the horse through the street.
CUT: (close) Two little children from before (zooming) ...
CUT: Dutch grabs two bags with 'money' from the street.
CUT:  (close) Two little children from before, dust blows in their
faces.
CUT: Bounty hunters shooting from the roof.

(repeated)
CUT: Horse of the man, who is dragged through the street, got hit.
(in the background you can see the man, who holds  the  horse  and
causes the fall of the horse ...)
CUT: (close) The two children.

CUT: The man standing up.
CUT: Coffer firing.
CUT: ... man got hit ....
CUT: (close) The two children.
03:22
CUT: ... man falling.
CUT: T.C. shooting.
CUT: ... again hiting the man.
CUT: (close) The two children.
CUT: ... man still falling.
CUT: Two other children behind a wall.
CUT: Wild bunch under fire riding through the main street.
CUT: From a side street a wagon and a man with a gun.
CUT: Ethan, who is leading rider ...
CUT: Man on the wagon gets ready to fire.
CUT: ... gets hit in the face.
CUT: Lyle stops his horse.
CUT: The horses on the wagon are moving.
CUT: Two children behind a wall.
CUT: Wild bunch rides through the main street seen from above.
03:38
CUT: The horses pull the wagon to the main street.
CUT: Lyle stops his horse.
CUT: The man on the wagon does not find a good shooting position.
CUT: Lyle shoots the man.

(repeated)
CUT: ... man falls, blood.
CUT: Lyle has problems to get his horse under control.

CUT: (close) Lyles face.

CUT: Pike rides back...
CUT: Bounty hunters on the roof shooting.
CUT: Pike takes Dutch, who has lost his horse on his horse.
CUT: shooting on the street.
CUT: Pike, Dutch rides away, Lyle is near them.
CUT: Thornton: They've cleared out, for Christ's sake.
03:59
(THE FIRST MASSACRE LAST FOR 03:36 !!)
Scene sequence END


4 Blazing scorpions

(The   children,  laughing,  are  burning  the  anthill  with  the
scorpions.)
Child:
(Laughing, while putting straw on the anthill) Put some more on.

PIKE: (removing woman clothes from his foot) Let's go.


5 Better'n a hog-killin'

(The bounty hunters are looting the dead bodies of the wild  bunch
lying  on  the  street,  killing Ape. Discussion between Harrigan,
Thornton and officials from the town.)
[The different 'culture' of an American and a Mexican village.]

Coffer: Take him. (Ignoring one of the dead bandits)
He's mine.
He's mine.
T.C.: I shot this one.
Look at the size of that hole!
Coffer: You just dig out that bullet and see if it ain't my .06!
T.C.: You know I shot him.
Coffer: You'd claim the whole thing, wouldn't you?

(Thornton going slowly along the street looking at the results  of
the massacre...)
Child: Daddy. daddy.
T.C:: Did he have any money.
Coffer: Damn, I can't get his belt off!

Harrigan: You stupid damned fools.
Why did you shoot this employee and let the others get away?
T.C.: I didn't! My first shot killed this man right here!
Coffer: Liar!
He  shot that employee while I dropped this bandit and them others
too.
I must've killed all three of them.
T.C.: What were we doing up on that roof?
Coffer: Liar! Liar! Black liar!
T.C:: Don't talk like that to me.
Coffer: I'm sorry. Come on T.C., help me get his boots.
T.C.: I think this will do pretty good.

THORNTON: Harrigan!
Next time, plan the massacre more carefully, or  I'll  start  with
you.
Harrigan: Why didn't you kill Pike when you had the chance?

(Ape in the office with the three hostages, still singing)
Ape: Yes we shall gather at the river
The beautiful the beautiful river...
(Hostages escaping)
Hey, stop. (shooting two times)
Feathers flew like a turkey!
Well, they shouldn't have run.
Citizen 1: (opening the door and shooting Ape) Stay.
Ape: (hit several times going to the floor)
(to  Harrigan  and  THORNTON)  How'd  you like to kiss my sister's
black cat's ass?
(Ape shoots 3 men on the street and is hit deadly by Harrigan)
Man 3: This is better than a hog-killing.
Citizen 2: Get them out of here!

Citizen 3: (opening the door, to Harrigan)
We're holding you and your railroad responsible for this carnage!
Harrigan: Mr Benson...
Citizen 4:
Innocent people are dead.
Women  dying  and  mangled  because  you  used  our  town   as   a
battlefield!
The railroad is going to pay for our loss of blood!
Harrigan: We were trying to catch a band of outlaws!
Citizen 4: You lured them in here.
The railroad has been blabbing about a big payload for weeks!
Harrigan: We represent the law!
(Thornton leaving the office, the children on the street, running,
play the shooting.)


6 The dear dead departed

(Wild  bunch riding through a sandstone desert, Ethan, whom we saw
in a preceeding scene getting hit by a bullet in  the  face  falls
from his horse.)
ANGEL: Ethan.
(Pike  riding  back  to  Ethan, the others looking. Obviously this
happend not the first time.)
Ethan: Pike, is that you?
I can ride. Pike. I can ride.
I can't see you but I can ride.
No!
I can't ride.
Finish it, Mr Bishop.
(Pike shooting Ethan. He rides back to the group,  who  watch  him
silently. Silence.)
PIKE:  You  boys  want  to  move on, or stay and give him a decent
burial.
T. GORCH: He was a good man. We should bury him.
PIKE: He's dead!
He's got a lot of good men to keep him company!
L. GORCH: Too damn many.
DUTCH: I think the boys are right.
I'd like to say a few words for the dear, dead departed.
Maybe a few hymns'd be in order!
Followed by a church supper with a choir!
(Dutch displays absolute loyality to Pike.)
L. GORCH: You crazy bastards, both of you!
(They are moving on.)


7 Judas goat

(Harrigan, in a wooden house speaks to the bounty hunters.)
Harrigan:
Bishop, Engstrom, the Gorch Brothers!
Amounts to a total of 4500 Dollars and you let them  ride  out  on
you!
When  the  hard-money  value  of  these  men  you  killed  less my
commission adds up to 500 Dollars!
And one of those pelts would've not  only  cleared  you  with  the
company but given you money to raise hell with.
Coffer: We'll do better next time!
T.C.:  We'll do anything you say, but we'd appreciate liquor money
tonight.
Harrigan: There won't be any tonight! You  go  after  them  in  10
minutes.
Get them! Get Pike and you'll be rich!
If one of you tries to auit on me I'll pay a bonus of 1000 Dollars
to the man that kills him.
(Thornton and the Harrigan exit)
Coffer: Well, lets pack it up then!
(Thornton and the Harrigan outside the house)
THORNTON: Mr Harrigan.
Harrigan: Why should I let you go with them?
THORNTON: We've been over that.
Harrigan:  You  might  join  them again. You'd like that, wouldn't
you?
THORNTON:
What I like and what I need are two different  things.  Listen  Mr
Harrigan.
I don't want to go back to prison, never again.
It's got to be my way! I need some good men!
You saw what happend out there!
Harrigan:  Use what you have and see that it does not happen again
or I see you spend the rest of your life behind bars.
Try to run, I'll be after you and so will they.
THORNTON: I gave you my word.
Harrigan: We'll see what it's worth. Six minutes.
THORNTON: Tell me, Mr Harrigan, how does it feel, getting paid for
it. Getting paid to sit back and hire your killings with the law's
arms around you?
How does it feel to be so goddamn right?
Harrigan: Good!
THORNTON: You dirty son of a bitch.
Harrigan: You've got 30 days to get Pike or 30 days back to Yuma.
You are my Judas goat, Mr Thornton.
I want all of them back here, head down over a saddle.
Thirty days to get Pike or 30 days back to Yuma.
(In Thorntons mind a whipping sequence in Yuma prison)
[The techniques of leadership: Harrigan, General Mapache  and  his
officers,  the  company  leader  in  the  train, Bishop, Thornton,
Mexican village, town officials, Pastor...]


New Horses


8 Across the border

(The horses of  the  wild  bunch  are  swimming  through  the  Rio
Grande.)
ANGEL: Mexico lindo.
L. GORCH: I don't see nothing so lindo about it.
T. GORCH: Just looks like more of Texas for me.
ANGEL: You have no eyes.

(The  bounty  hunters  are passing the dead body of Ethan, who was
shot by Pike)
THORNTON: Got a half hour of light. Let's go.


9 Dreaming of washers

(Mexican farm in the desert. Sundown.)
SYKES: Hello little fella.
(SYKES chuckles, caressing a baby. Mexican women, old. wild  bunch
arriving.)

(Conversation (women, children, men, boys) continues in Spanish in
background)

(The wild bunch arrives.)
SYKES: Them other fellas.
PIKE: They are not coming.
SYKES: None of them.
PIKE: No.
SYKES: But I got horses and saddles for them.
PIKE: We'll need them, they won't.
L. GORCH: Now about sharing up.
PIKE: Sharing up will be the same as always.
L.  GORCH:  Me  and Tector don't think that he (pointing at Angel)
ought to get the same amount. He's just starting out, and this  is
our opening for a new territory.
T.  GORCH:  That's  right.  I  figure  a  share  to  that old goat
(pointing at Sykes) for watching the horses is a share too much.
(Sykes spitting at the ground)
L. GORCH: So, we decided, it ain't fair.
PIKE: If you two boys don't like equal shares, why the hell  don't
you just take all of it?
(Tector and Lyle look dazzled)
PIKE: Why don't you answer me, you damned yellow livered trash?
L. GORCH: Now Pike, you know...
PIKE:  I don't know a damned thing except I either lead this bunch
or end it up right now.
L. GORCH: We divide it up just like you say.
ANGEL: Chick, chick, chick, chick...
(They open the bags with the 'money' with  their  knifes,  washers
are falling out)
L. GORCH: Silver rings...
DUTCH: Silver rings, you butt! Them's washers! Damn!
PIKE: Bastards1
(Sykes laughing)
L. GORCH:
Washers!
Washers.
We  shot  our  way  out of that town for a dollar's worth of steel
holes!
PIKE: They set it up.
L. GORCH: They? Who the hell is "they"?
SYKES: (laughing hysterically)
"They"?
"They" is just plain and fancy "they".
That's who "they" is.
Caught you, didn't they?
Tied a tin can to your trail!
Led you in and waltzed you out again!
Oh my, what a bunch!
Big tough ones.
Here you are with a handful of holes, a thumb up your ass,  and  a
big grin to pass the time of day with.
"They"! (more angry)
Who the hell is "they".
PIKE:
Railroad men.
Bounty hunters.
Deke Thornton.
SYKES: (looks shocked)
Deke Thornton?
He was one of them?
L. GORCH: How the hell come you didn't know that!
ANGEL: Hey, gringo. (laughing)
You can have my silver.
(Tector tries to pull out his gun, but Angel is faster.)
Come on, gringo, don't kill me.
Por favor.
You can have the silver.
(Sykes taking his rifle)
But don't kill me.
Please.
PIKE: Go on, go for it.
Fall apart.
DUTCH: Walk softly, boys.
(They are sitting down. Sykes giving Tector a bottle of whiskey)
DUTCH: What's our next move?
PIKE: I figure Agua Verde is the closest.
Three days maybe.
We'll get the news and go to the border.
Maybe a payroll, maybe a bank.
L. GORCH: Maybe that damn railroad!
DUTCH:  That damn railroad you're talking about sure isn't getting
no easier.
SYKES: And you boys ain't getting any younger either.
PIKE: We must start thinking beyond our guns.
Those days are closing fast.
L. GORCH: (calm)
All your planning and talking damn near got us  shot  over  a  few
lusy bags of washers.
This  was  going  to  be  me  and  Tector's last job befor we quit
heading south.
We spent our time and money getting ready for this!
PIKE: You spent time and money running whores  while  I  spent  my
stake setting it up!
(Lyle throwing a washer at Pike, he catches it)
Hell  I  should  have been running whores instead of steeling army
horses!
(All laughing)
L. GORCH: While you did the planning me and Tector was getting our
bell rope pulled by two, two, mind you, Hondo whores!
(All cackle until end of scene)
DUTCH: And Pike was dreaming of washers!
L. GORCH: He was.
DUTCH: You were matching whores in tandem.
L. GORCH: What's that.
T. GORCH: One behind the other.
L. GORCH: That's right! That'S what we was doing!
(Also children who watch the scene from a distance, laughing)


10 "Being sure is my business"

(Night in the desert: Thornton and the bounty hunters)
Coffer: Mr Thornton. You rode with Pike. What kind of man  are  we
up against.
THORNTON: The best. He never get caught.
[For  Thornton  being  seperated  from Pike, Pike already became a
kind of legend, maybe by knowing the alternatives.]
(Night in the desert: Pike and Dutch)

(Night in the Mexican farm, Angel  with  guitar  singing,  Mexican
women  watching,  Dutch  and  Pike  sleep in their clothes under a
blanket near the fire.)
PIKE: This was going be my last.
Ain't getting around any better.
I'd like to make one good score and back off.
DUTCH: Back off to what?
Have you got anything lined up.
PIKE: Pershing's got troops spread out all along the border.
Every one of those garrisons will get a payroll.
[The US goverment called out it's army, led by  General  Pershing,
to defend its border against the raids of Pancho Villa.]
DUTCH: That kind of information is kind of hard to come by.
PIKE: I didn't say it's going to be easy, but it can be done.
DUTCH: He'll be waiting for us.
PIKE: I wouldn't have it any other way.

(Remembering sequence Pike, how Thornton get caught)
(Women, laughing, obviously a noble whorehouse)
THORNTON: (Correctly dressed) Come on Pike, let's go.
PIKE:  (Half  naked,  with  two  women)  You sound like you're all
caught up.
THORNTON: (Pushing away a beautiful woman) Enough  to  know  we've
overstayed our welcome.
PIKE: What's wrong with you?
We've got plenty of money to spend and no worries in the world.
They're not going to look for us in their own backyard.
THORNTON: How can you be so damned sure?
PIKE: Being sure is my business. (sentence echoes)
(knocking on the door)
THORNTON: (To the woman who wants to open the door) Hold it.
PIKE:  Relax.  It's  just  some  champagne  we  ordered. (sentence
echoes)
(The door opens, men enter with guns, shooting, Thornton got  hit,
Pike escapes. The last sentences of Pike echo through the scene.)
Man 1: Did you get him.
Man 2: No, he got away.
(end of remembering sequence)


11 Learning from being wrong

DUTCH: Man, you sure must have hurt that railroad.
They spent a lot of money setting up that ambush.
PIKE: I caught up with them.
Two or three times.
There was a man named Harrigan.
He used to have a way of doing things.
I made him change his ways.
And a hell of a lot of people just cann't stand being wrong.
DUTCH: Pride.
PIKE: And they cann't forget it.
That pride, being wrong, or learn by it.
DUTCH: How about us, Pike.
You reckon we learned being wrong today?
PIKE: I sure hope to God we did.

(Sykes brings coffee)
SYKES: Them's hot.
DUTCH: (burning his fingers receiving the cup) Damn.
Where in hell did you find him?
PIKE: He run with Thornton and me.
Did his share of killing and more.
Around Langtry.
DUTCH: Now he does his killing with a coffee cup.
(pouring away the coffee. Drinking whiskey from the bottle.)

(Angel still singing and playing guitar)
DUTCH: Pike? I wouldn't have it any other way either.


12 When you side with a man

(riding through the sand in a desert, horses and package horses. )
Sykes: Watch out boys.
(They are going down a steep sand slope with the horses)
PIKE (?): Take it easy.
(Sykes is falling from his horse and causes allt he others also to
fall  into  the white sand. Only Angel with 5 package horses stays
at the top of the slope smiling)
PIKE: That goddamned son of a bitch!
Get those horses up.
L. GORCH: What the hell is going...
T. GORCH: (standing up, to Sykes) Damned old punk! Bastard!

PIKE (?): (to a horse) Get up now! Get up there, goddamn it!
(sounds and words of people working the horses out of the sand and
catching horses, that ran away.)

T. GORCH: What the hell is the matter with you, old man?
(throwing a stone at Sykes)
PIKE: Leave him alone.
T. GORCH: He'll gonna get us all killed! I'm going to get  rid  of
him!
PIKE: No you're not!
We're sticking together, like it used to be!
When  you  side with a man you stay with him. If you can't do that
you're like some animal! You're finished! We're finished!  All  of
us!

Mount up!
(Pike's stirrup tears and he falls trying to get up his horse.)
T. GORCH: Appears brother Pike needs help.
L.  GORCH:  That  brother  Pike  and the old man Sykes makes a man
wonder if it ain't time to pick up  his  chips  and  find  another
game.
T.  GORCH:  How  the  hell can you side anybody when you can't get
even on your horse.

(The wild bunch moving on)
SYKES:
That was a fine talk you gave the boys about sticking together.
That Gorch came near killing me.
Or me him.
Damned old fool like me's not worth taking along!
PIKE: We started together, we'll end it together.
SYKES:
That's how I see it.
That's the way it's always been with me.
Sorry about Deke.
I never figured him that way.

SYKES: Hey. Back there in Starbuck how did my boy do?
PIKE: Your boy? Crazy Lee?
SYKES:
Yes, C.L., Clarence Lee.
My daughter's boy. Not to bright, but a good boy.

(Remember sequence of Ape holding the three unarmed people in  the
office.  "I  kill'em  now?  I kill'em now?" "No you just hold them
here")
PIKE: Why didn't you tell me, he was your grandson.
SYKES:
You had enough things on your mind.
Besides, he had to pull his own weight, like the rest of us.
I just wanted to make sure he  didn't  let  you  down,  run,  when
things got hot.
PIKE: No, he did fine. Just fine.
(Happy expression in Sykes face)


13 Turning back

(The bounty hunters reaching the Rio Grande)
Coffer: All clear.
T.C.: From here on it's Mexico, Mr Thornton.
THORNTON: What's the closest town of any size?
Coffer: Agua Verde.
THORNTON: What's in Agua Verde?
Coffer: Mexican's, what else.
(laughing)
Coffer: A headquarter for regulars fighting against Villa.
Mapache territory.
(Thornton changing the headin of his horse)
Coffer: Don't we follow...
THORNTON: No, we go back and wait.
Man 3: We're supposed ...
Coffer: Shut up!


Angel's village


14 Sadness and celebration

(The  wild  bunch  riding  into  Angels  hometown,  a poor mexican
village.  Outside  of  the  town,  dust,  a  dog  looking  like  a
skeletton.)
L.  GORCH:  Why  the  hell  won't you tell your folks to feed them
dogs.
DUTCH: Won't find  very  much  around  here.  That  damn  Huerta's
scraped it clean.
ANGEL:
I have invited you to my village, to my home.
Any disrespect to my family or to my people I will kill you.
PIKE: Ashamed of having us meet your people?
ANGEL:  Yes.  They  don't  know  about  my  life  when I leave the
village.
(Old man watching the riders)
L. GORCH: You got a sister?
ANGEL: Yes.
L. GORCH: I'd be proud to make her acquaintance...
T. GORCH: And that of your mama too.
SYKES: That goes for your grandma too, sonny.
(All cackle)

(Children playing, women making bread, cooking,  a  girl  explains
some game with a thread to the Gorch brothers in Spanish...)

PIKE: How bad was it.
Don Jose: Seven of the villagers were killed. Two of them hung.
Our horses, cattle and corn, stolen.
PIKE: What about the federal troops?
Didn't they protect you?
Don  Jose:  They were federal troops, commissioned by the traitor,
Huerta.
ANGEL: And the soldiers who shot my father? What was his name
PIKE: What does it matter?
Don Jose: Your father died like a man.
The names are not important.
ANGEL: How was he called?
Don Jose: Mapache.
ANGEL: That is name enough.
Don Jose: In Mexico, senor, these are the years of sadness.
But if we had rifles like these...
ANGEL: And Theresa? Did they molest her?
Don Jose: No. She went with them because she wished to.
She became the woman of Mapache and the others. She went with them
laughing. Drunk with wine and love.
(Angel leaving)
To him Theresa was a goddess, to be worshipped from afar.
I tell you, she was a mango, ripe and waiting.
PIKE: Angel dreams of love and Mapache eats the mango.
(Sykes laughing)

L. GORCH: (To the girl with the thread) That's a good trick.
(Woman in Spanish calls something to the girl)

(Pike see the Gorch brothers playing with the girl)
PIKE: Now that I find hard to believe.
Don Jose:
Not so hard.
We all dream of being a child again.
Even the worst of us.
Perhaps the worst most of all.
PIKE: You know what we are then.
Don Jose: Yes, just so, the both of you! (Sykes and Pike)
PIKE: And you.
(All laughing)

ANGEL: Where is Mapache!

(Night: festive music plays, clapping and cheering)
DUTCH: All right Pike? All right?
L. GORCH: Tector, let's swap. (both dancing with Mexican girls)
Come on let's swap.
(Excited hollering and chattering)
ANGEL: You must tell me. Where is Mapache?
Don Jose: Why do you wish to know?
For your father? Or the whore?
PIKE: Either you learn to live with it or we leave you here.
ANGEL: I go with you.
(Dutch asks a woman sitting between him and Pike to start  dancing
with him)
SYKES: You know, what I'm going to do? Steal his girl.
Don Jose: You are?
SYKES: Here I go.
Dutch, I'm cutting in.
Come on lady.
(Music, laughter and cheering continue)
(At last Pike and Angel are the only ones not dancing)


15 Farewell to the bunch

(All sing traditional folk song in Spanish)
(Men taking their hats from the head while the wild bunch on their
horses is leaving the town)
(A woman gives Dutch a red flower)
(L.  GORCH  gets  a Mexcican hat. He wears it until the end of the
movie)
(Angel gets, from his mother(?) a bag with food)


General Mapache


16 The General drives in

(a woman giving her breast to a baby.  Soldiers  marching.  A  man
making  tortillas.  The wild bunch enters a Mexican garrison town.
Chicken. A market,  onions,  not  plenty.  Women  sitting  on  the
ground.)
DUTCH: No gringos.
ANGEL: Only federales.

DUTCH (to Pike) Only soldiers, not a bounty hunter in sight.

(The General drives in in a red car)
DUTCH: Now, what the hell is that?

Zamorra: Attention
(Soldiers saluting the General in the car.)

PIKE: I saw one just like it in Waco.
L. GORCH: Running on steam.
PIKE: No, on alcohol or gasoline.
SYKES: You know what I heard?
I heard they got one of those things up to north that can fly.
T. GORCH: That was a balloon, you damned old fool.
PIKE: No, the old man is right.
They've got motors and wings and go 60 miles in less than an hour.
Going to use them in the war.
Let's  talk  to  the  General  about  his automobile and our extra
horses.
Nice and easy.


17 Angel's woman no more

(The wild bunch enters  the  poor  Mexican  town  of  Agua  Verde.
Soldiers  are  patroling on the arcs, which seem to be the remains
of an cathedral. Despite of the poorness and the rotten  buildings
an  everlasting feast is going on. Obviously Mapache can not exist
without music, wine and women. He, his officers  and  the  germans
are  sitting  on  a  higher  floor  eating, drinking, watching the
scene.)

Comm. F. Mohr: Do you know, these Americans, General?
Mapache: (Spanish) No, I don't know any Americans, and  these  men
even less.

(The  wild  bunch  sitting  on  a  dirty  (but empty of glasses or
bottles) table. In the background children behind bars  which  are
in front of the windows. The walls are loosing plaster. Civilians,
especially women, children, and soldiers are mixed up.)
DUTCH: Six cervesas, perfavor.
(The two german officers are talking silently.)
T. GORCH: Probably talking about us behind our backs.
DUTCH: I'm down to about twenty in silver.
PIKE:  Since  the Generalissimo cleaned out this area, he ought to
have a lot to spare.
DUTCH: Generalissimo, hell.
He is just another bandit grabbing all he can for himself.
PIKE: (laughing) Like some others I could mention.
DUTCH:
Not so as you'd know it, Mr Bishop.
We ain't nothing like him.
We don't hang nobody.
I hope someday these people kick him and the  rest  of  that  scum
like him into their graves.
ANGEL: We will.
If it takes forever.
(Looks between Pike and a girl)

(WHOLE DIALOGUE IN SPANISH:)
Theresa: General! General!
Look what I brought you.
Mapache: What a beautiful horse.
Theresa: It's for you.
Mapache: For me?
Theresa: It's my gift to you. A thoroughbred.
Mapache: Send him off to mate with my mare.
(Applause from the people)
Then he'll be in shape to mate with all the other mares.
And you, pretty brunette, come with me.

(Theresa is passing by the desk of Angel and the others)
T. GORCH: (about the horse) Well good looking old pony, ain't he.
ANGEL: Theresa.
(Some spanish words between Theresa and another girl)
T. GORCH: Boy do you know those beauties.

(WHOLE DIALOGUE IN SPANISH:)
ANGEL: You left the village.
Theresa: So what. Si.
I left your stinking village so I would not starve.
Look at me now. I'm happy.
Very happy.
I'm living with the big boss of this place General Mapache.
(Angel wants to grabb the girl)

PIKE: (holding him) Come on.
ANGEL: She was my woman.
PIKE: I know, I know.

Theresa: (kissing the General) General.
T. GORCH: Sure ain't your woman no more.
L. GORCH: Just look at her licking inside that General's ear.
ANGEL: Whore. (Shooting Theresa with a single shot)

(T. Gorch immediatly beat down Angel. The wild bunch surrenders in
front of the from all sides approaching soldiers.)
Zamorra:  What's  going  on  here.  Why  did  he  try  to kill his
Excellency?
PIKE: He didn't try to kill His Excellency. He was after the girl.
DUTCH: (in spanish) He was his fiancee.
PIKE: He went a little crazy when he saw her with you.
(all laughing at putting away arms. Also the wild bunch, laughing,
somehow false, gets back his arms.)

Comm. F. Mohr: Are you associated with the American Army?
DUTCH: No. No, we're not associated with anybody.
Comm. F. Mohr: I see. I was curious about the equipment which  aou
are  carrying.  That  pistol  is  restricted  for  the use of army
personell. It can't be purchased or even owned - legally.
PIKE: Is that so?
Comm. F. Mohr: Weapons are my speciality.
I am Commander Frederick Mohr of the Imperial German Army.
It would be very usefull for us, if we knew of some Americans, who
did not share their goverment's naive sentiments.
PIKE: We share very few sentiments with our goverment.

Comm. F. Mohr: (in spanish to Mapache)
Perhaps we should invite these gentlemen to have a drink with us.
DUTCH: (to Pike) He's inviting us to have a drink with them.
Mapache: Porque non. Let's have a drink.
PIKE: Good.
(He looks at ANGEL lying on the ground, taken high by to Mexicans)

(Sequence with the bounty hunters)
T.C.: Shoot him.
(Making the noice of taking the gun and provoking  a  response  by
Thornton)
Coffer: I gave it to him, T.C.
(Thornton  let  them  pass  by not wanting them in his back... The
bounty hunters laughing.)


18 Target: an arms shipment

(Mapache is correcting his outfit in front of  a  mirror,  in  the
background the muffled voices of woman praying)
Mapache: (speaking angrily in Spanish)
Out! Stop praying!
Enough! You old hags!
Out!
(Procession  of women carrying the dead body of Theresa continues,
without even noticing Mapache's protest.)

(A table with silver dishes, noble)
PIKE: Here?
Comm F. Mohr: No, no, not there!

(Angel is sitting at the door, guarded by men  who  point  at  him
with pistols)
(When  the  procession enters Lyle Gorch raises taking a handle in
his hand...)
T. GORCH: Wait, what are you going to do?
We got to show a little class here.
(Zamorra shrieks, women continue praying, Mohr remains silent.)

Comm F. Mohr: Right here! It must be that garrison rail spur.
PIKE: It's the easiest to hit, but I must find a way to get it out
of there.
(to Dutch) What do you think?
DUTCH: Getting pretty close to home.

(On the table of Sykes, Lyle and Tector there are bottles of  wine
and tequila, but no silver dishes...)
L. GORCH: Look at them gathered around the table.
Here we sit like kitchen help.

DUTCH:  Why  do  you  want us to hit that train right there at the
border?
PIKE: Can't the General take over the whole thing?
Comm F. Mohr: (with a glas of red wine)
General Huerta is anxious to better relations with the US, not  to
cross the border and destroy them.
PIKE: Usually these arm shipments are kept pretty secret.
How'd you find out about this?
2nd  German:  Mapache  has  a  superb intelligence force organized
under supervison by my commanding officer.
Zamorra: Now gentlemen we are quite well organized and able to pay
10000 US Dollar in gold.
If you are not able to do the work, we'll find someone else.
PIKE: We can do it. But we're going to need equipment.
Zamorra: Do not worry.
Our accountant will take care of it.

(Mapache entering)
Comm F. Mohr: My General, soon  you  will  be  the  best  equipped
General in Mexico.
(People  at  the  big  table  raises  from  their seats, the Gorch
brothers and Sykes ignore it)
L. GORCH: Look here, ain't  he  the  one.  (Mapache  is  obviously
totally drunken)

(All  call  a  toast,  Lyle  and  Tector  respond  to  the  toast,
unfittingly)

PIKE: With your permission. I need a bath.
2nd German: With my permission. I think you all need a bath.
L. GORCH: (alound from the background)
I don't need no bath.
What me and Tector need is a couple of them women you're hogging.
Can you fix that up for us, boy?
(Everyone is looking irritated)
Comm F. Mohr: Gentlemen, you will excuse me.
DUTCH: Oh, I'm sure.
Zamorra: Herrera.
PIKE: Let's get Angel.
DUTCH: Yeah.

(Zamorra crying angrily at Herrera. Herrera calling  the  name  of
women.)

(They take Angel)
Mapache: Un Momento.
PIKE: Por favor. I need him.
Mapache: I give you someone much better than that.
PIKE: If you don't mind I'll make my own choice.
Zamorra: (in Spanish) Let them take him away, General.
Mapache: All right. He is not important to me. Take him.


19 Rest and recreation

L. GORCH:
I think we're gonna get on the wagon now.
Hey, here come our sweeties. (Three women appear)
T. GORCH: Ain't them pretty. (Lyle who flirted with a real Mexican
beauty  looks  a  little  bit  disapointed,  but  this  immediatly
vanishes)
[Like so often conventional western aesthetics are  ignored.  What
is  shown  are  not  Mexican  beauties,  but normal Mexican woman,
somehow old, fat. But there is  one  thing:  Obviously  the  Gorch
brothers  will  have  a real nice time with them. It is the action
and not the surface that counts.]
I don't know about yours, Lyle, but I think, I got more than I can
handle.

(The Gorch brothers with  their  women  are  running  through  the
cellar and the wine storage, kissing, woman giggling.)
T: GORCH: Hey get out of them.
L. GORCH:
You know what they told me?
The dons of Spain built this over 300 years ago.
T: GORCH: Is that right?
L: GORCH: That's right.
T: GORCH:
I tell you, Lyle, I'm all for them dons.
Let's have a little target.
She won't get away. Turn her loose.
L: GORCH: Why not.
(First  Tector,  thean  Lyle shoot holes into a barrel of red wine
and all take a shower and drinking the red wine coming out.)

L: GORCH: Hey Tector, look at them beauties. (Uncovers the  breast
of one of the woman)

(Meanwhile  Sykes,  Angel,  Dutch,  Pike  in  a sauna, hooting and
hollering. And old woman brings new hot stones. They are  drinking
Tequila  from  a  bottle,  Pike is inspecting his scar on his left
leg.)
DUTCH: How the hell can you stand it that hot?
PIKE: I'm going to build me one of these some day and live in it.

(Meanwhile the Gorch brothers are taking a bath in a barrel of red
wine with their beauties.)
T: GORCH: Hell Lyle, look here.
(Giggling and splashing)
Come on, sweetheart, let me see your teatsies.

PIKE: (to Angel)
I don't know why the hell I didn't let them kill you.
ANGEL: I'm going to steal guns for that devil to rob and  kill  my
people again.
DUTCH: Noble, noble. Very noble.
SYKES:  I didn't see no tears on your cheeks when you rode in from
Starbuck.
ANGEL: They were not my people.
I care about my people, my village. Mexico.
SYKES: Listen boy, you ride with us, your village don't count.
If it doesm you don't go along.
ANGEL: Then I don't go along.
DUTCH: Angel, one load of guns ain't going to  stop  them  raiding
villages.
Think about all the money you'll have.
PIKE:  Buy  them  a  ranch.  Move them 1000 miles. Buy them two or
three ranches.
DUTCH: One. A very small one.
(Sykes giggling)
ANGEL: Don't you see? This is their land. No one  is  gonna  drive
them away.
SYKES: I'll drink to that sentiment. And to love. But most of all,
I'll drink to gold!
(Men laugh and call a toast)

PIKE: Angel. You're a pain in the ass.
ANGEL:  Would you give guns to someone to kill your father or your
mother, or your brother?
PIKE: Ten thousand cuts an awful lot of family ties.
ANGEL: My people have no guns.
But with guns my people could fight.
If i could take guns i would come with you.
DUTCH: How many cases of  rifles  did  Zamorra  say  was  in  that
shipment?
PIKE: Sixteen.
DUTCH: Give him one.
(All thinking)
PIKE:  All  right.  One case and one case of ammo. But you give up
your share of the gold.
ANGEL: I will.
PIKE: We know you will.
SYKES: Sure glad we got that settled.
DUTCH: Why, you reprobate. (Pouring a bucket of water at Sykes)
(All cackle happily. The Gorch brothers arrive with their women.)
L: GORCH: Boys. I want you to meet my fiancee.
(Pike and DUtch giggles)
T: GORCH: They just got engaged.
SYKES: I'm a son of a bitch.
Trot them on in, fellas.
I'm hell on packing mules, but I'm a delight with a pretty girl.
(Laughing)


20 Pike's lost love

Harrigan: You want to gamble everything  that  this  one  shipment
will be attacked?.
THORNTON: If they are in Agua Verde, they'll try for it.
Harrigan: If? What about Juarez?
THORNTON: If he was, we'd have heard.
If they are in Agua Verde, they will have seen Mapache.
Harrigan: And who in hell is Mapache?
THORNTON:
A killer for Huerta who calls himself a General.
He's been fighting Villa and losing.
But with enough guns, he could become a power in northern Mexico.
Pike will try to get them for him.
Harrigan: How? The train will be guarded by regular troops.
THORNTON: Not regular troops, green recruits not worth a damn.
I need 20 trained men, not recruits.
And not this gutter trash you've given me.
(The 'gutter trash', in the same room, hearing this)
Harrigan: What you've got is 24 more days.
(Train whistle blows in a distance)

(The wild bunch with horses, Sykes on a wagon, is riding through a
plain desert.)
DUTCH: Never told me how you got all torn up like that.
(Speaking about the scar on Pike's left leg.)
PIKE: I met a woman I wanted to marry.

(Remembering sequence)
(Pike brings flowers to a dark skinned woman, who beats him in his
face.)
PIKE: Is your husband coming back?
Woman: (Angrily) No. He is never coming back.
But you are late. Two days late.

PIKE: She had a husband. If I had any sense, I'd have killed him.
He wasn't around. I got careless.
One night he walked in on us.
Caught her with the first shot, and got me here with the second.
Then the damned coward turned and ran.
DUTCH: Ever catch up with him?
PIKE:  No,  but  there  isn't  a day or an hour that passes that I
don't think about it.
(turning back)
Come on! We've got a long way!
(to Dutch)
This is our last go around, Dutch. This time we do it right.
(While riding Pike drinks whiskey out of a bottle)


Train Robbery


21 Catching a train

(Train whistling approaching a water reservoir in the middle of  a
deserted  country.  Soldiers  and bounty hunters inside the train,
sleeping.)

(The train (P.S.T.R.R. nr  650),  soldiers,  the  bounty  hunters,
stops for filling water. ANGEL hide in the water pump. LYLE GORCH,
PIKE and DUTCH under the bridge.
One  soldier  leaves  the train, investigating the small buildings
and possible hiding places, but they don't find the wild bunch.
No words. Everyone knows his job.)

(Rhythmic repetition of steam blowing from train engine)
ANGEL: (to the man handling the water pump) Just do your work.

(Lyle controls the front of the train, Angel and Pike the  engine,
Dutch  the  rear  part.  Angel  goes  back  to  the wagon with the
soldiers.)

(ANGEL uncouples the wagon  with  the  soldiers  (the  seats  have
leather  furniture) and they go with the guns. THornton gets aware
of the manoevre.)


22 The Wild Bunch Express

Thornton: (seeing the departing front part  of  the  train,  after
looking at the soldiers - nearly children, to his men) Let's go.
DUTCH:  (seeing  the  bounty  hunters  leaving  the train on their
horses) They are coming.

(Officer wakes up and recognizes that the front part of the  train
is running away and the bounty hunters are not here anymore.)

DUTCH: They are coming.
PIKE: (to the man at the engine) Faster.
(Accelerating  the  train  causes  Dutch  to  stumble and fall. He
catches hold between two wagons but  the  two  soldiers,  whom  he
previously guarded now opened fire at him.)
PIKE: (to the machine man) Get over.

(Lyle  shoots  the  two soldiers who tried to raise weapon against
him)
(Angel shoots the soldiers who fire at Dutch and helps  Dutch  out
of his dangerous position.)

(The  young  soldiers  are  not  able to get the horses out of the
wagon and start the pursuit.)
Officer: Get that ramp up!
Get that horse out of here!
Bring them all out! Get them out!
Get over here!
Get them over here! Get those horses!

(Tector and Sykes waiting beside the tracks with  the  wagon,  the
train arrives.)

(Soldiers:)
Officer: Hurry up.
Recruit: Your horse kicked me.
Officer: Run them up along here!
Where the hell is my horse?

(Wild bunch:)
(unloading the train loading the wagon)
DUTCH: Hey, we got grenades!
PIKE: Hurry up! We gotta get out of here!
DUTCH: Be careful!

(Soldiers:)
Officer: Line up in two columns!
Corporal, give us a hand here!

(Wild bunch:)
DUTCH: Hey Pike, we're all ready!


23 Backtrack

(Pike lets the train move back...)
PIKE: Let's go!

(The train passes by the bounty hunters, horses neigh, black smoke
comes out of the train...)

Officer:  Get  after that horse. That was my horse! Get after him.
Get out. (sees the train coming)
Recruit 1: Get that damn horse off my butt.
Officer: Get those horses out of here. The train is coming.
Recruit 2: Train?
Recruit 3: Where?
Recruit 4:
What train?
I don't see any.
Get that goddamn horse off my foot!
(Train crashes into the  wagon,  a  horse  and  two  soldiers  are
falling...)


24 Standoff at the bridge

(The  bounty hunters reach the place where the wild bunch unloaded
the train)
Coffer: (Catching the track of the wagon of the wild bunch)
Hey T.C.

Officer: Corporal, ride back to the telegraph at Todos  Malos  and
tell  them  the  railroad  deputies  robbed the train and we're in
pursuit!
Corporal: Yes sir.

(Shield at the bridge: You are leaving the United States)
(While the wagon is crossing the bridge  Angel  is  lightning  the
dynamite fuses.)
(The  bounty  hunters  arrive.  Rapid  exchange of gunfire, horses
neigh and shuffle. One wheel of the wagon  breaks  in  the  wooden
boards of the bridge.)
ANGEL: Come on, it's lit.
(Bridge creaks, men grunt. Lyle and Dutch tries to lift the wagon,
while  Sykes  tries to get the horses going. Pike is firing at the
bounty hunters, who get off their horses and also go  into  firing
position. The soldiers arrive. The bounty hunters open fire at the
soldiers.)
THORNTON: (yells) Don't shoot! It's the army!
(Meanwhile the wagon was lifted and continues to roll.)
DUTCH: Come on, Pike!


25 Tip of the hat

(While  the  wagon  of  the wild bunch is rolling along the bounty
hunters and Thornton are on the bridge  opening  fire  from  their
guns.
The  bridge explodes and the bounty hunters fall with their horses
into the river. One horse is galopping over the bridge.
The soldiers are looking.)
PIKE: Let's go!
(Dutch has some problems with his horse) Come on you lazy bastard.
DUTCH: I'm coming, damn it.


Through the Mountain Desert


26 Bottom of the bottle

(Greasing the wagon)
PIKE: IS it allright?
DUTCH: Yes.
SYKES: Where are they supposed to meet us?
PIKE: Agua Verde or before.
But when we do meet them, don't expect any open arms.
DUTCH: Least we won't have to worry about Deke Thornton.
PIKE: (laughing) Hell no. Not after riding a half case of dynamite
into the river.
SYKES: Don't expect him to stay there. He'll be along and you know
it.

(They are drinking a quarter-full bottle of whiskey, Pike  starts,
everyone gets his share, exept Lyle. Everyone is laughing.)


27 Mapache under attack

(Bounty hunters)
Man: Besides my hair is wet.

(The  village  is  under mortar fire and cavallery attack. The red
car of the General is placed on a wagon of the train, a  woman  is
singing. A telegram arrives at the telegram station.)
Man: Pancho Villa sont attacka.
Boy: A telegram from San Antonio.
General: The gringos assaulted the train. They got the guns.
Zamorra: We must go.
General: (To Herrera)
Take the necessary people and take the road to Agua Verde.
Convince  the  gringos  to  give  you  the  guns. I'll wait in the
village.
Herrera: If the gringos refuse.
General. Matalos.
(to the Pancho Villa troops)
The next time we meet I'll destroy you.
(The  little  boy  still  standing  proudly  beside  the  General.
Obviously the General said the sentence just to impress the boy.)
Zamorra: Let's leave General.
General: Vamonos.


28 "We're after men"

(We  see  through  Dutch's  looking  glass Thornton and the bounty
hunters riding through a desert valley.)
DUTCH: He's still heading east.
PIKE: Are they bluffing, or did they really miss it.
DUTCH: I'd say they missed it.
Take a look.
There's only five left.

Coffer: Hell, we lost them.
Man: I don't see how. Unless it was in the big  valley  where  the
ground was hard.
T.C.:  There was but one way they could take a wagon out of there,
and this is it.
THORNTON:
They didn't take it out.
We haven't lost them.
I could point to them right now.
Sit still damn it!
You think Pike and Sykes haven't been watching us?
They know what this is about. What do I have?
Nothing but you chicken stealing gutter trash  with  not  even  60
rounds between you.
We're after men.
And I wish to God I was with them.
The next time you make a mistake, I'll ride off and let you die.
Come on.


29 Robbery proof guns

(Dutch and Pike through a looking glass observing Thornton)
DUTCH: I never figured they'd come down here after us.
How much you reckon we could be worth.
PIKE: Depends on how hungry they are.
You better stay here and look out for big hats.
I'll go down and start rigging the fireworks.
DUTCH: All right.
(Pike  goes  to the wagon, the wild bunch sitting in the shadow of
the wagon)
PIKE: Angel.
Get that case of esplosives off hte back there.
Lyle!
Hand me down those blasting caps.
L. GORCH: What're you gonna do with the dynamite?
PIKE: I figure that General will try to  take  this  load  without
paying for it and shoot us in the bargain.
The  only  thing  to  change  his mind is if something happened to
these guns.
I'm gonna make sure something could happen.
T. GORCH: Hey Pike, take a look at this. (showing a machine gun)
L. GORCH: Can you handle that?
PIKE: What I don't know, I sure as hell am going to learn.

(The wagon moving through rocky desert. Angel and Tector do reckon
jobs, Lyle stands at the machine gun, Sykes handles the wagon.)


30 Angel's friends

(Evening. Pike from behind, then you see a Mexican appearing  with
a machete. Suddenly they are everywhere.)
ANGEL: My people are here for their guns.
PIKE:
(to Tector) Where the hell you were supposed to be guarding us.
T. GORCH: I never heard them, didn't even see them.
(Angel and his friends speaking in Spanish)
ANGEL:  They  apologize and ask you to forgive them for their lack
of trust. But only by caution do they remain alive.
PIKE:
Tell them not to break that fuse.
(Angel and his friends speaking in Spanish)
These people from your village?
ANGEL:
They are part of the village, but not from it.
They are puro Indio and these mountains belong to them.
("Anchel, grazias" "we meet again soon." "Adios")

DUTCH: I'd say those fellows know how to handle themselves.
SYKES:
They fought Apaches for 1000 years.
That's a sure way to learn.
PIKE: If they ever  get  armed,  with  good  leaders,  this  whole
country will go up in smoke.
SYKES: That it will, son, that it will.
L. GORCH:
They made damn fools out of us, Mr Bishop.
A  man  can't  sleep with both eyes closed for fear of getting his
throat cut.
(to Tector) Where the hell where you?
T. GORCH:
You listen to me. If you got up and helped  once  in  a  while,  I
wouldn't have got caught so easy.
(All cackle)

(Mapache.  Church  bell  ring  in  a  distance. A well. People are
washing blood into the well.)
Zamorra: With the new guns  and  ammunition,  this  couldn't  have
happened.
(Mapache with a cigar, in the background the german officers.)


31 Trust between partners

(The  wagon  moves  at  dawn  through  high  plains, view from the
ground, the wagon disappears into the rising sun ...)
L. GORCH: Swings your leaders wide, old man!
Bring them on.

(The wagon enters a valley, surrounded by rocks, about 30 meters.)
SYKES: Come on, horse!
(Sykes continues hollering commands)

PIKE: Hold up!
SYKES: Whoa there!
DUTCH: Mapache's?
PIKE: Let's hope they don't belong to Villa.
(Everywhere Mexican soldiers emerge out of their hiding places,  a
group of riders, lead by Herrera approach the wild bunch.)

Herrera: We are friends. (Broad Mexican accent)
We are from el General Mapache.
PIKE: Tell the one in front to come here. Alone.
(Dutch translates this into Spanish)
Herrera:
I am coming. I am your friend, remember?
We are friends. All of us.
I bring you love and affection from el General.
Eh. You bring the guns with you. Bravo! Bravo!
What bravery you have done! (Drying the sweat from his head)
I am to escort you to the General.
PIKE: Tell him to come closer.
(Dutch starts speaking, but...)
Herrera: I hear. I am coming, my friend.
PIKE:
You know, what this is. (Showing Herrera the fuse)
(Herrera recognizes the dynamite)
Any trouble, no guns for the General.
Herrera:
(cackles) Very smart!
That's very smart for you damn gringos.
So nobody can rob the guns.
PIKE: Nobody.
Herrera:
I am not afraid.
They are not afraid.
You blow up the wagon, you die.
Or we kill you pretty soon.
But we are amigos.
DUTCH:  Show  them  boys.  (The Gorch brothers uncover the machine
gun)
(A soldiers shoots from down the rocks at the wagon. Herrera yells
commands in Spanish. Pike lits the fuse)
L. GORCH: Start the ball, Tector.
Herrera: Please, cut the fuse.
Please.
(Pike cuts the fuse)
Chi en fue?
Chi en fue?
Matelo!
(A few soldiers shoot the soldier, who previously have fired)
El General waits in Agua Verde to meet with you.
PIKE: Tell the General one of us will be there to trade tomorrow.
Any trouble, no guns.
Herrera: (Herrera cackles)
(Yelling:) Muchachos! Vamonos!
(To himself:) Damned gringos.

(Riders retreating over the high plains above the canyon. Thornton
watches the whole Scene from a distance.)

PIKE: Get them up there, get them over.
(Whip cracks, horses neigh. The wagon leaves the canyon,  the  way
leads to high plain.)

(Pike  rides  into the town of Agua Verde. Sun. Soldiers with guns
ready. The Spanish and the German  officers  in  the  patio  of  a
house, above the scene)
Mapache: Gringo! Do you bring the guns?
PIKE:
Don't worry, we've got them.
Hidden.
When I get my share of the gold, twenty five hundret Dollars worth
I'll tell you where four cases are.
The others are waiting for me back at the wagon.
If I don't show up pretty quick, they'll blow it.
Mapache: You fix it goddamn good, no? You fooled me.
Zammora: Our accountant will pay you immediatly.
Mapache: When do we get our guns?
PIKE: The quicker I get back the quicker you get the next load.
(Herrera brings the bag with gold)
Open it up.
(Zamorra and Mapache talk in Spanish)
Up  the  arroyo about two miles you find three cases of rifles and
one of ammunition hidden in the bush behind it.
Herrera: (Yells some commands in Spanish) A cavallo!
Comm. F. Mohr: I understand you have a machine gun.
PIKE: Our contract called for 16 cases of  rifles  and  ammunition
for  10000  Dollars.  Not a machine gun. That's our present to the
General.
Mapache: Muchas gracias, gringo. Gringo, you  fight  with  Mapache
there (continues in Spanish) will be much money and women.
PIKE: I think about it.
Zamorra: Por favor. In case we don't find them.
Mapache: Go. I trust him. Adio, gringo.
(Zamorra  and  Mapache  talk  in  Spanish  and cackle, Pike riding
away.)


32 Getting Sykes riled

(Sykes goes shitting, not far from the wagon)
L. GORCH: Why the hell don't you stir up some grub?
SYKES: Why the hell don't you go to hell.
(Tector lits the fuses of a package  of  dynamite  and  throws  it
behind Sykes. Angel and Dutch watch a little frightend.)
SYKES: Damned. Damn it. (Removes the fuse)
Damn it. Pike must've found you under a rock.
(Sykes approaches, holding his open trousers.)
T. GORCH: You gonna whip me?
SYKES:  Nope.  But you better hope I don't get riled enough to dog
you when this is over.
T. GORCH. You are not going to get a chance to dry gulch  me,  old
man.
SYKES: We'll see. Se'll see.


Selling the guns

33 Machine gun hayhem
(Hooves clomping, Lyle approaches)
L. GORCH: Pike's coming.
T. GORCH: He's got it. Carrying gold.

DUTCH: Any trouble?
PIKE: Just from carrying this weight.
(Pike throws the two bags with the gold to Dutch and Tector)
T. GORCH: Pike, I want to go next.
PIKE: All right. You and your brother take the next load, with the
machine gun.
Then Angel and Dutch. Freddy, you follow and get the pack horses.

(Seven  hands try to fix the ammunition supply of the machine gun,
Spanish conversation, background folk music)
Comm. F. Mohr: (from the background)  It  must  be  mounted  on  a
tripod.
(A woman wants to hold back Mohr telling Mapache what to do)
(Mapache talking angry in Spanish in the direction of the Germans)
Das ist falsch! (That is wrong)
2nd German: Der ist ja verrueckt. (He is crazy)
Comm. F. Mohr: Nein! Hoeren sie auf. (No! Stop it!)

(While  three  men  hold  the  machine gun Mapache starts shooting
uncontrolled,  everywhere  bullets,  soldiers,  also  the  Germans
looking for cover or running away)
L. GORCH: Crazy bastards. (He and his brother galloping away)

(Mapache  falls  to the ground. Women laughing, obviously drunken,
the only ones not seeking cover.)

(Mapache stands up, smiling, starts the gunfire again...)
Comm. F. Mohr: Sie sind ja verrueckt! (You are crazy!)
(Also the three men supporting Mapache  (including  Herrera)  look
for cover and Mapache shoots the last burst holding the gun alone)


34 Angel betrayed

(Mexican  soldiers and Mapache opening boxes with guns, a box with
the  scripture:  800  cartridges,  talking  in  Spanish,  children
watching the scene.)
Mapache: (To Zamorra and Herrera, who are at the machine gun)
Put it on the tripod.

(Mapache drinking wine while Dutch and Angel arrive)
DUTCH: We brought the last of it, General.
Mapache: E bueno, muchas gracias (laughing)
(Zamorra approaches Dutch with the money, throws both bags to him,
looking angry)
DUTCH: At the head of the arroyo, in the wagon.
(Mapache yells some command to Herrera)
You can keep the wagon, we keep the horses.
Mapache: Muchas gracias (serious)
Zamorra: How many cases did you take from the train?
DUTCH: Sixteen cases of rifles. We lost one on the trail.
Mapache: He stole it. (Pointing at Angel)
The mother of the girl he killed told me so.

(Angel tries to escape)
(Somebody yells in Spanish "Matelo")
Mapache: (In Spanish) Don't kill him! I want him alive.
(Dutch  just looking, soldiers bring Angels horse with a rope to a
fall. Mapache smiling. The soldiers bring Angel to Mapache.)
DUTCH: I am wasting time here. Adios.
Mapache: E Anchel?
DUTCH: He is a thief. You take care of him.
Mapache: (laughing) Bon viaghe, amigo, bon viaghe.
(Dutch riding away, all cackle, except some woman, the Germans and
Angel)


35 Your word

(The wild bunch standing in the mountain desert, on a high  place,
Dutch on his horse, no movement)
L. GORCH: Well, he had guts.
PIKE: We're just lucky he didn't talk.
DUTCH: He played his string right up to the end.
L. GORCH: Her own mama turned him in, like some kind of Judas.
DUTCH: Sykes says, we should go after him.
L. GORCH: How the hell we do that? They got guns and 200 men.
PIKE: No way. No way at all.
L. GORCH: (Pointing down to the valley) Is that Sykes?

(Pike looks through his looking glas, sees Sykes with four package
horses. Sykes starts galloping, leaving the package horses, seeing
somehow Thornton and the bounty hunters, hidden between the bushes
on a hill. Some bounty hunters start shooting.)
L. GORCH: Mapache!
PIKE: (Seeing Thornton) Thornton.

(One of the bounty hunters hit Sykes at the leg.)
One of the bounty hunters: I got him.
PIKE: They got Freddy. He looks hit pretty bad.
DUTCH: Damn that Deke Thornton go to hell.
PIKE: What would you do on his place. He gave his word.
DUTCH: Gave his word to a railroad.
PIKE: (yelling) It's his word!
DUTCH: (yelling back) That ain't what counts! It's who you give it
to!
L. GORCH: We can stay up here and kick hell out of them!
That's what we can do.
PIKE: No, we're running short of water.
DUTCH: Make a run for the border?
PIKE: They'd follow us every step on the way. I know Thornton.
I'm tired of being hunted.
Let's  go  back  to Agua Verde. Let the General take care of those
boys.
L. GORCH: You're crazy. He would just as soon  kill  us  as  break
wind.
PIKE: He's so tickled with those guns, he'll be celebrating a week
and happy to do us a favor.
Thornton won't follow us in there.
While they're picking over Freddy we'll find a back trail off this
mountain and head for town.
T. GORCH: What about our gold?
PIKE: We take one sack to pay our way. Bury the rest.
Together.

(Sykes  stepping  upside  a  hill  between stones, the five bounty
hunters galloping through the sand in the  valley.  His  leg  full
with  blood.  One  of the bounty hunters fall from the horse. They
see the horse of Sykes and stop there.)
Coffer: Lots of blood, then it stops. No tracks.
Ten dollars says he's dead by now.
THORNTON: Take us a day, to find him, if he is.
(The fallen bounty hunters arrives, somehow deranged.)
If not, he has a gun on us right now.
Let's find the others.
Fallen bounty hunter: Just leave him here? He's worth money.
THORNTON: Ride out tomorrow, if you can stay on  your  horse,  and
watch the buzzards.
They show you where he is.
Fallen bounty hunter: What if he ain't dead, Mr Thornton?
THORNTON: That's your problem.
let's go.

(Sykes trying to treat his wound. A man with a machete behind him,
coming nearer. Long looks between them.)


36 Dragged in the dust

(The  wild  bunch  entering the town of Agua Verde. Fireworks. The
permanent Mexican  festival,  music,  drinking,  women.  Angel  is
dragged behind the red car of Mapache through the dust.)
PIKE: God, I hate to see that.
DUTCH: No more than I do.
(Crowd  laughing  and  cheering.  Especially  the  children appear
extremly rude. The car of Mapache  stops  in  front  of  the  wild
bunch.  Herrera leaves the car, obviously totally drunken. Mapache
drives. The officers have different uniforms than before, dark and
more ceremonial.)
Mapache: Adio gringos. Welcome amigos! You come for  your  friend,
no?
PIKE: I want to buy him back.
Mapache: (In Spanish) Get him up. Quick.
(Herrera and Zamorra bring Angel)
I don't think he looks worth too much.
Herrera: I don't think he's gonna live too long.
PIKE: I give you half of my share for him.
Mapache: I need no gold and I don't sell this one.
PIKE: Why not? You had your fun with him.
Zamorra: El General said, he was happy with the guns.
Why don't you go and get a drink?
Enjoy yourself. There are women everywhere.
Muchas bonitas.
Don't be foolish and change his mood.
Mapache: (somehow angry) Vamonos! Vamonos!
DUTCH: Son of a bitch.
A Mexican: (In Spanish) You want girls? Dica me...
PIKE: Why not?

(Bounty hunters, on a desert mountain road)
T.C.: There ain't nobody here!
Coffer: There's wagon tracks and somebody was here!
T.C.: They ain't here now!
THORNTON: (Seeing soldiers on horses) Army patrol!
Coming this way.


Massacre


37 "Let's go." "Why not."

(Herrera  pouring a bottle of wine over the leg of a girl, licking
it up. Woman squeals and laughs. The woman pours a  glas  of  wine
over Herrera. The machine gun on the tripod on the table. Musicans
in the background, drunken boy sleeping in the foreground.)

(Dutch sitting in the sun in front of a Mexican house playing with
a  piece  of  wood. Behind the corner a woman is sitting and a man
sleeping in the shadow of the wall.)

(Pike dressing up himself. Over the door you see a  crucifix.  The
beautiful,  soft  and  calm  looking  girl cleaning herself with a
barrel of water, a baby crying in the background, Pike drinks  the
remaining  tequila  from a bottle, plays with the empty bottle. In
the next room a  prostitute  argues  in  Spanish  with  the  Gorch
brothers.)
L.  GORCH: You said dos for two. (Pouring a bottle (water(?)) over
his body)
T. GORCH: (Lying on a bed, playing with  some  tiny  bird)  Here's
your dos and one to grow on. That's all you get out of me.
Prostitute:  (in  Spanish)  Twelve  is more than two. That's why I
said twelve each.
(Prostitute sobs. Pike, angry, stands up, goes  to  the  neighbour
room)
PIKE: Let's go.
L. GORCH: Why not?
(Pike  returns to his room, throws a piece of gold to the table of
the girl, no words. The little bird Tector played  with,  lies  on
the floor, looks like going to die.)


38 Toward a showdown

(They  leave  the  house, Dutch stands up smiling, they take their
rifles, load them.  Women  singing  in  the  background.  They  go
through  the  town.  The walking through the town, people at their
daily work, playing, dancing, sleeping, it lasts for 1  minute  41
seconds.)

29:49 Scene sequence:
00:00
CUT: Pike, Tector, Lyle are leaving the house.
CUT: Dutch is putting the piece of wood into the ground, smiling.
CUT: Tector, Lyle are putting their pistol-belt on.
CUT: Dutch smiling.
CUT: (from behind) Pike, then the others approaching their horses,
putting out their guns and other equipment.
CUT: (from side, then frontal) Pike, then the others loading their
guns, background the desert and children, a Mexican song starts.
00:47
They start walking, an old woman crosses in the background, camera
moving backwards, they pass by the camera on the left side.
CUT: (from behind) the wild bunch going, soldiers with horses, men
in  the  shadow of the walls. They go towards a gap in the wall in
front.  Soldiers  are  following  them  watching.  Trees  in   the
background
01:27
CUT:  (frontal)  Wild  bunch  marching, soldiers cooking, carrying
wood, others just standing around. All look at the gringos.
CUT:  The  camera  approaches  a  group  of  Mexicans,   including
soldiers, singing.
CUT:  (frontal)  Wild  bunch marching, surrounded by soldiers, who
either go in a different direction or to no direction at all.
CUT: Woman with soldier cap with children, a man with a gun.
CUT: (from the ground right) Wild bunch marching.
CUT: Soldiers  and  men,  one  without  shirt,  getting  a  shave,
looking.
CUT:  (frontal)  Wild  bunch  marching,  surrounded  by  soldiers,
background the man who gets shaved.
CUT: Woman sitting on the bare ground, children, looking.
02:11
CUT: (frontal) Wild bunch marching,  background  soldiers,  Tector
pushes a soldier aside.
CUT:  A  fire  burning,  soldiers,  walls,  a tent, the wild bunch
appears from the edge of a wall at the courtyard. Stops.
CUT: Mapache, drunken, looking.
02:28
(THE MARCH LAST FOR 01:41)
Scene sequence END


39 "We want Angel"

(In quick cuts  you  see  soldiers  looking,  German  and  Mexican
officers on the table, the wild bunch, women doing something...)
Mapache:  Those  gringos  again  (in Spanish, drunken) What do you
want?
PIKE: We want Angel.
Mapache: (chuckling) You want Angel, no? I am going to give him to
you.
(Mapache takes Angel from the ground, talking to him  in  Spanish.
He  tells  him,  that  he will be free now. He cuts the ropes that
binds his hands with a knife. Then he uses this knive to  cut  the
throat   of   Angel.  Pike,  then  Dutch  shoot  Mapache.  Herrera
immediatly raises in hands to show surrender.)
00:00;

(Wild bunch is standing there with guns ready. Soldiers raise from
their seats, some raising their hands,  most  just  looking.  Some
still  have guns in their hands. The whole scene takes place under
the arcs of a long ruined cathedral, only the arcs remain,  houses
are build inside the room that previously was holy.)
00:21;

(Dutch   starts   cackling.   Tector   responds,   they  obviously
understand.)

00:35;
(Pike shoots Mohr)


40 The shooting starts

Scene sequence:
00:00
CUT: Pike shoots his automatic pistol ...
CUT: Mohr falls, hit in the breast.
CUT: Dutch smiles.
CUT: Herrera tries to pull his gun ...
CUT: (from behind) the wild bunch looking in  Herreras  direction,
Pike shoots.
CUT: ... Herrera get shot by Pike.
CUT: Pikes face.
CUT:  Soldiers  in  the  courtyard are seeking cover, taking their
guns.
CUT: Tector smiles.
CUT: Soldiers in the courtyard are  seeking  cover,  taking  their
guns.
CUT: Lyle smiles.
CUT: Herrera dying.
CUT: (from above) Soldiers and women in the courtyard, moving.
CUT: Pike running, a shoot hits the wall behind him.
CUT: (view from the table with the machine gun) Soldiers...
CUT: Dutch running, shooting.
CUT: Soldiers seeking cover.
CUT: Women and children seeking cover, a table with vegetables get
thrown.
CUT: Tectors face.
CUT: A dying soldier, Tector from behind, shooting.
CUT:  Soldiers  lying  on  the ground shooting in direction of the
camera.
CUT: A soldiers face, shooting.
00:12
CUT: Wild bunch, shooting, running.
CUT: A soldier dying.
CUT: Women and children sitting under  a  table,  looking  without
expression.
CUT:  The  table  of  the Mexican officers, musicans trying to get
away, soldiers shooting.
CUT: Wild bunch, shooting, running.
CUT: The table of the  Mexican  officers,  men  in  clean  uniform
dying.
CUT: (frontal) Pike's face shooting.
CUT: Soldier with sombrero dying.
CUT:  (from  behind) The wild bunch is at the table of the Mexican
officers, Pike carrying the gun in  his  left  hand  shooting  his
pistol with his right hand.
CUT: A Mexican soldier at the machine gun.
CUT: Lyle shooting.
CUT: Soldier at the machine gun gets hit.
CUT:  Pike  (background)  shooting,  in  the  foreground a Mexican
soldier running.
CUT: Dutch shoots the Mexican soldier with his pump gun.
CUT: Wild bunch shooting from the soldiers point of view.
CUT: Tector enters some cover, jumping.
CUT: Someone shoots at him from the dark.
CUT: Tector hits him.
CUT: (frontal) Zamorra shooting his pistol, missing Pike.
CUT: Pike, more seeking cover than shooting back.
CUT: Dutch shoots Zamorra.
00:32
CUT: Lyle follows Tector to his cover, Tector shooting.
CUT: Two women entering the room.
CUT: Lyle shooting with his pistol at the soldiers,  then  moving,
shooting one of the women.
CUT:  Lyle shoots a soldier, who runs towards the wild bunch, from
the view behind the soldier.
CUT: same scene seen from behind of Lyle.
CUT: Pike shooting.
CUT: A soldier, surrounded by all the other soldiers, hit.
CUT: Tector, moving.
CUT: Dying of the soldiers in the courtyard  in  front,  some  are
running, shooting towards the wild bunch.
CUT: Pike shooting.
CUT: A soldier, surrounded by all the other soldiers, hit.
CUT: German officer at the machine gun.
CUT: Tector shoots the officer.
CUT: (frontal) Dying German Officer fires ...
CUT: ... (from behind) into the Mexican soldiers.
CUT: (frontal) Rapid machine gun blast. Dying soldiers.
CUT: (frontal) Dying German Officer fires ...
CUT: (frontal) Rapid machine gun blast. Dying soldiers.
CUT: (side) Rapid machine gun blast. Dying soldiers.
CUT: Pike shooting.
CUT: (frontal) Dying German Officer fires ...
CUT: Pike shooting.
CUT: Soldier dying.
CUT: German officer dying.
CUT: Tector, running, firing.


41 Commandeering the gun

00:52
CUT: A soldier running out of a door...
CUT: (frontal) Tector seeking his target, shooting.
CUT: ... soldier dying.
CUT: Another soldier following.
CUT:  (from  behind) A soldier is shooting at Lyle, who shoots the
soldier.
CUT: The arcs in the background, soldiers running in the courtyard
towards the wild bunch.
CUT: A woman under a table, a soldier running by.
CUT: Old soldier shooting.
CUT: Dutch, you always have the impression one of the  wild  bunch
is hit, but they are not, shooting at the old soldier ...
CUT: .. who gets hit at the shoulder.
CUT: A soldier shoots from one of the old windows ...
CUT: Lyle shoots with his automatic pistol.
CUT: ... again the impression Dutch is hit.
CUT: ... the soldier gets hit.
CUT: Lyle shoots with his automatic pistol.
CUT: A young soldier ...
CUT: ... hits the wall above Lyle.
CUT: A young soldier with an automatic pistol hits ...
CUT: ...Tector who falls.
CUT: Lyle shoots ...
CUT: ... the young soldier - the machine gun in the foreground.
CUT: Lyle running towards the machine gun.
01:04
CUT: Boy soldiers behind a table shooting.
CUT: Tector goes to the machine gun.
CUT: An old soldier coming out of a door ...
CUT: ... Lyle shoots ...
CUT: ... the soldier dies ...
CUT: ... hiting Lyle on the shoulder.
CUT: ... dying soldier.
CUT: ... Lyle falling, same as before Tector.
CUT:  Soldiers shooting from behind the windows, others running up
the stairs to the cover of the wild bunch.
CUT: (frontal) Tector shooting the machine gun.
CUT: Pike shooting.
01:15
CUT: Thornton looking at  the  scene  from  a  distance  with  his
looking glass, behind him the mountains and the bounty hunters.
CUT:  Soldiers  through  the  looking  glass  of Thornton, but the
perspective (more from Pike's view and above) is impossible.
CUT: (side) Tector shooting the machine gun.
CUT: A soldier gets hit, around him a couple of dead corpses.
CUT: Soldiers shooting from the roof of a building.
CUT: (side) Tector shooting the machine gun.
CUT: Soldiers at the roof get hit.
CUT: (frontal) Tectors face behind the gun.
CUT: Soldiers at the roof get hit.
CUT: New soldiers appaearing at the arcs.
CUT: (frontal) Thornton shoots at them.
CUT: (frontal) soldiers at the arcs get killed.
CUT: Man falling from the roof.
CUT: Soldiers, between the arcs, shooting, without seeking cover.
CUT: Man falling from the roof.
CUT: (frontal) Tector shooting.
CUT: (Zooming camera) Men at the arcs get hit.
CUT: Man on the wall gets hit, falling down.
CUT: Men at the arcs dying.
CUT: Man falling in the middle of a table with vegetables.
01:33
CUT: Soldiers try to come nearer the position of the wild bunch.
CUT: Dutch throwing a grenade (looks somehow like throwing away  a
cigarette).
CUT: Soldiers die in the explosion of the grenade.
CUT: (frontal near) Tector shooting.
CUT: Man with a sombrero gets hit.
(repeat) CUT: Soldiers die in the explosion of the grenade.
CUT: Man with the sombrero dies.

CUT: Face of Tector shooting.
CUT: Man with the sombrero dies.
CUT: Dutch throws again a grenade.
CUT: Man with the sombrero dies.
(repeat)  CUT:  In the roaring explosion soldiers that came nearer
from under the arcs get killed.
CUT: An old woman and children in the shelter of a thrown table.

(repeat) CUT: Soldiers getting killed hit the ground.
CUT: Soldiers that are thrown in the air by the grenade.

01:45
CUT: Lyle shooting at soldiers that come near to Tector  from  the
side.
CUT: (side) Camera zooms to Lyle who shoots.
CUT: (frontal) Soldier tries to load his gun.
CUT: (side) Lyle shoots soldier in the head.
CUT: Soldier dies.
CUT:  Pike shooting, bullets, crash into the wall around him. Pike
does not seek cover until now, now he enters a room.
CUT: Face of a woman, zoom away, Pike from behind, the face was in
the mirror.
(repeat)
CUT: (frontal) Pike, in the background a soldiers on the roofs.
CUT: Face of the woman

CUT: (from behind) Pike shoots into the mirror, a soldier got hit,
falls. Woman just watching. Pike shoots again in some direction.
01:58
CUT: Thornton and the bounty hunters.
CUT: Dutch throws a grenade over Tector into an open door,  Tector
shooting at the soldiers on the roof.
CUT: A girl under a table.
CUT: Explosion throws soldiers out from the open door.
CUT: A girl under a table.
CUT: Soldiers come out of an open door.



42 The wild bunch dies


02:05
CUT:  The  girl under the table starts running, camera zooms away.
Dutch grabs the girl, and  uses  her  body  as  a  shield  against
soldiers coming from the side.
CUT: Soldiers get killed by Dutch.
CUT: A young soldier hits Tector.
CUT: Tector dies.
CUT: (from behind) Dutch shoots at the soldiers.
CUT: (frontal) girl gets hit.
CUT: (from behind) Dutch fights with a soldier.
CUT: (from inside) Pike looks out of the door of the room he is in
...
CUT: Dutch gets rid of one of the soldiers.
CUT: Soldiers shooting from a balcony.
02:17
CUT: Dutch and the soldiers he fights with, falling.
CUT: A soldier behind a wall.
CUT: A soldier in the middle of dead corpses.
CUT:  (from  behind)  Tector  shooting  his  revolver, Lyle at the
machine gun.
CUT: (side) Lyle shooting, Tector got hit again.
CUT: (behind) Lyle shooting.
CUT: (side) Lyles face.
CUT: Dying soldiers.
CUT: A bullet in the wall besides Tector, who shoots into the room
behind him.
CUT: A young soldier shooting.
CUT: Lyle gets hit, continues shooting.
CUT: From a door on the side a new group of soldiers arrive.
CUT: Lyle brings the machine gun  in  the  direction  of  the  new
soldiers.
CUT: Bottles on the table in foreground and soldiers in background
get hit by machine gun fire.
CUT: (frontal) Lyle crying, shooting, Tector get hit, shooting his
revolver.
CUT: Bottles on the table in foreground and soldiers in background
get hit by machine gun fire.

(repeat) CUT: (frontal) Lyle crying, shooting.
CUT: Dying Mexican soldiers.

02:37
CUT: Girl shoots Pike in the back.
CUT: Pike turns around, cries "Bitch!" and shoots the girl.
CUT: The bounty hunters approach galopping on their horses.
CUT:  (from  behind)  Pike  goes  out  into  the battle shooting a
soldier with his automatic pistol.
CUT: Lyle wailing firing the machine gun.
CUT: Bullets hit the wall around soldiers firing from a balcony.
CUT: (from behind) Pike shooting his pistol.
CUT: Soldier gets hit.
02:54
CUT: (from behind) Pike throws a table to get cover.
CUT: Lyle wailing firing the machine gun.
CUT: Woman and children  sitting  somewhere  under  cover  on  the
ground.
CUT: Soldiers running out of a door hit by machine gun fire.
CUT: Lyle wailing firing the machine gun.
CUT: Soldiers running out of a door hit by machine gun fire.
CUT: Pike and Dutch 'meet' in the cover of the table.
CUT: (side) Soldiers loading their guns coming nearer.
CUT: Pike and Dutch look into each others face.
CUT: Lyle wailing firing the machine gun, Tector in the background
with a revolver.
CUT: Soldier lying on the ground gets hit.
CUT: Soldier standing at a wall gets hit.
CUT: Pike to Dutch: "Come on you lazy bastard."
03:06
CUT: Child soldier shooting.
CUT: Lyle gets hit.
CUT: Pike sees Tector and Lyle Dying.
CUT: Soldier shoots from the roof.
CUT: Tector gets hit.
CUT: Soldier shoots.
CUT: Lyle gets hit.
03:15
CUT: Pike raises.
CUT:  Soldiers  approach  from  under  the arcs, in the foreground
bottles and boxes with ammunition.
CUT: Soldier shoots.
CUT: Soldier shoots behind bars.
CUT: Tector and Lyle dying, still standing.
CUT: Pike shoots.
CUT: A soldier got hit.
CUT: (from behind) Pike at the machine gun.
(repeat) CUT: (side) Pike's face.
CUT: Soldiers, horses.

03:26
CUT: Soldier shoots behind bars.
CUT: Tector and Lyle dying, still standing.
CUT: zoom nearer: dying soldiers under the arcs.
CUT: (side) Pike's face.
CUT: Tector and Lyle dying, still standing.
CUT: Dying soldiers under the arcs.
CUT: Dying soldier.
CUT: Lyle and Tector on the floor.
CUT: (frontal) Pike shooting.
CUT: Dying soldiers.
CUT: (frontal) Pike shooting.
CUT: Lyle still moving on the floor.
CUT: Soldier on a balcony got hit.
CUT: (frontal) Pike shooting.
CUT: Soldier on a balcony got hit.
CUT: Dutch standing up.
CUT: (frontal) Pike shooting.
03:36
CUT: A box of dynamite explodes, soldiers are thrown  through  the
air.
CUT: (side) Pike shooting.
CUT:  In  the  foreground horses, while in the background dynamite
explodes.
CUT: Explosion, horses, soldiers.
CUT: Dutch: "Give them hell, Pike!"
03:43
CUT: Child soldier, behind bars, shoots Pike.
CUT: (frontal) Pike gets hit.
CUT: Man from the roof shoots.
SWING: Another man on the roof shoots.
CUT: Pike's death dance, shooting with the machine gun in the air.
CUT: Dutch: "No Pike!" Bullets crash in the wall behind him.
CUT: An old man and a soldier shoot Dutch.
CUT: Dutch falling over Pike.
CUT: Dutch: "Pike. Pike."
CUT: Face of Pike, dying.
CUT: Dutch falling.
CUT: Face of Pike, hidden behind the hand that holds  the  machine
gun, dying.
CUT: Dutch, covered with blood and dust on the floor.


(THE FINAL MASSACRE LASTS FOR 04:04)
Scene sequence END

[There is a lot of dying, but technically I would put it this way:
The  pictures  of  a battle are not objective, but subjective. You
don't see, what actually happens, but what a person believes, that
happens. When Lyle shoots you see his point of view,  every  shoot
scores.
A  real  example:  US  Bomber  crews over Germany believed 1943 to
shoot down about 10  times  as  many  German  fighters  than  they
actually did.]


43 Taking stock

(The  shooting  stops,  soldiers, children soldiers, old soldiers,
leaving their cover, children, men,  soldiers,  looking.  No  hard
cuts  but  soft  fades between the scenes. The bounty hunters with
Thornton ride into the town, dead bodies all over, women in  black
dress  praying,  vultures  sitting on the walls, the old walls are
made of raw stones, plaster has often fallen down.)

T.C.: Look at them.
(Vulture is flying through the scene.)
Coffer: Come on.
T.C.: Wait for me. Come on, let's get all the guns.
Coffer: This is fine!
T.C.: This is just like a big old picknick!
Coffer: Here's a rifle for you.

(Thornton approaching the machine gun, finding the  dead  body  of
Pike  taking  his revolver (not his automatic pistol). During this
sequence the sound is reduced to rudimentary filmmusic.)
[Paralell sequence when Coburn took  Kristoffersons  gun  in  'Pat
Garett and Billy the Kid']

Coffer: He's got a gun.
T.C.. It's him. It's the Gorches!
T.C.: Get up there, Coffer. Come on.
Coffer: Mr Thornton. It's them. It is them.
T.C.: This boy's got gold in his teeth. Let me see your knife.
Coffer: Here.
T.C.: Let me see your knife.
[The  poor  Mexicans  didn't  make  this  dead  body  looting. The
difference between the catholic Mexican  culture  and  the  modern
American culture shown in this movie]
Coffer: Mr Thornton. Shall we load up?
T.C.: Do we wait for Jess or meet him on the way?
Coffer:  If  he's  waiting for buzzards to lead him to Sykes, he's
got a long wait.
(One of the bounty hunters  with  a  number  of  guns  around  his
shoulder cackles)
Look! We got them all.
T.C. There he is. There is Pike.
T.C.: There, you ain't so damned much now, are you, Mr Pike?


44 Death echoes in the wind

(Thornton  leaving  the scene (and we with him) to sit at the gate
in the dust, no shadows, it became cloudy, and it is not necessary
to sit in the shadow...)

(The bounty hunters with the corpses of the wild bunch bound  over
package horses leave the empty city through the gate)
Coffer: You ain't coming?
Thornton: No.
T.C.: Maybe we should wait for Jess.
Coffer: No, no, no. We pick him up on the way.
I want to get out of this damn place.
Anyway, these boys'll start going ripe by tomorrow.
We got to move.
All bounty hunters singing:
I went to the river
and I couldn't get across
Singing 'polly wolly doodle' all the day
I jumped on a buzzard
'cause I thought he was a horse
Singing 'polly wolly doodle' all the day

(Wind  howling.  People  of  the  city,  wounded  soldiers, goats,
leaving the town, the sky is dark, birds flying across the  scene,
Thornton  sitting,  watching, his horse on a rope in front of him.
People pass him by.)

(The bounty hunters in the mountain desert)
Coffer: Jess! Jess! (The others continue singing)

(While the people leave the town, cattle, sundown,  gunfire  in  a
distance, Thornton smiling, understanding what happens.)


45 Some work to do

(Sykes  with  the  indios  and  Don  Jose, the old man from Angels
village. They see Thornton.  No  preparing  to  fight,  no  bbeing
angry, just approaching)
SYKES: Didn't expect to find you here.
THORNTON: Why not?
I sent them back.
That's all I said I'd do.
SYKES: They didn't get very far.
THORNTON: I figured.
(Soldiers  passing by, carrying the machine gun and ammunition out
of the town)
SYKES: What are your plans?
THORNTON: Drift around down here.
Try to stay out of jail.
SYKES: Well, me and the boys here, we got some work to do.
Want to come along.
Ain't like it used to be, but it'll do.
(Sykes cackle, Thornton smiles, gets up his horse.)


46 A last glimpse

(The new wild bunch leaves, camera rises up, gives a view  of  the
wide  plain.  A  traditional  spanish folk song. Pictures of Pike,
Dutch, the Gorches, Angel, laughing,  credits  running.  The  last
picture is Pike and the wild bunch leaving Angels village...)
 



All movie scripts and screenplays on Screenplays for You site are intended for fair use only.
        




