Men In Black


FADE IN

EXT.  DEEP SPACE
We're rushing through the universe at what must be thousands of miles 
per second.  Asteroids, stars and so-called "dark matter" whirl past in 
a blur. Whose point of view this is, we don't know.  We're just moving, 
quickly, through deep, wide space, when WE CUT TO:

Tight space.  And we are:

IN THE BACK OF A DARK VAN - TEXAS/MEXICO BORDER - AT NIGHT
CLOSE ON faces.  Latinos.  Nervous.  Huddled in darkness as the van 
grinds through muddy terrain.  One of them, a child, cries out in 
Spanish, comforted by his father.  Several others look on as--

THE DRIVER
Anxiously checks his rear view mirror.  He's being followed.  

THEN IN FRONT OF HIM - BEHIND DARK BUSHES
in the middle of the bog are several INS AGENTS, who rise, badges and 
guns exposed as the van's headlights cut through the brush and

INT.  VAN
The Driver curses in Spanish and the seven would-be illegal immigrants 
hold each other as the van lurches to a halt and--

THE INS MEN APPROACH THE DRIVER
Intimidating.  They wear sunglasses, even at night.  The Driver rolls 
down his window.  He's a smuggler, a slime, and held sell his mother 
for beer.  But the INS guys are used to guys like him.  Maybe too used 
to it, cause they don't treat him very well.

INS LEADER
What you got?  Huh?  More wetbacks to take more jobs?  Huh, amigo?

DRIVER
No le puedo ayudar, companero. (subtitled: I can not help you, my 
friend.)

Using more force than they need to, the INS men yank the Driver out of 
the van.

INS LEADER
You're gonna be in this country, you're gonna learn the god damn 
language.  Mojados jodidos...

IN THE VAN
The seven hear, but don't see, what's going on, as --

JUST OUTSIDE
Quickly and brutally, the INS handcuff the Driver to a somewhat high 
branch on a nearby tree.  And then-

IN THE BACK OF THE VAN
Bright light spills in as the doors are flung open and the INS Men are 
standing there with flashlights.

A MINUTE LATER - OUTSIDE THE VAN
The seven scared illegal aliens are lined up and the INS men are 
removing handcuffs as they hear another car approaching and--

AROUND THE HALF-CIRCLE OF INS CARS
Another car pulls up and stops.  This one just as plain as the others: 
a boxy, powder-blue, 1986 Ford LTD.  And out of it, backlighting the 
headlights of the other INS cars, step:

TWO MEN
Who clearly have been on a long chase.  One of them is middle-aged, and 
his wizened, weathered demeanor carries with it the baggage of many 
years of many other long chases.  This is KAY.
The other man is older, and, where as Kay is the apotheosis of world 
weary, this man, DEE, is just simply weary.

Lead by Kay, the two step to the center and speak to the Leader.

KAY
We'll take it from here.

INS LEADER
What?  Who the hell are you?

KAY
INS, Washington.  Special services.

Kay and Dee show the Leader some form of ID. - Whatever it says, it 
sure seems to impress him.  Cause he just nods and backs away.

INS LEADER
Yes, air.  Welcome to Texas, air.

The Leader signals, and they all move back, watching as Kay approaches 
the row of nervous immigrants.  When he reaches them, h slowly and 
deliberately studies each and every one of their faces.

KAY
Which do you have your money on, Dee?

DEE
I'd go with number three.

KAY
Three, huh?  Really? Cause a cup of coffee says we're talking about... 
number... four?  Huh?  No?

Kay stops at the fourth.  Stares closely.  Then moves on.  Then comes 
back. Looks him in the eye. (Subtitles are bolded.)

KAY
Carnet, compadre. See some ID?

The Fourth Man in line just stands there.

KAY
I said: I want to see some ID.

The Fourth Man nods, hands Kay some papers.  Kay looks at them

KAY
(in Spanish, subtitled)  "Jose Garcia?!! Really? Well Jose, this is 
odd.  Cause it says you've lived in Oaxaca for thirty one years... yet, 
you have no idea what I'm saying, do you?

"Jose" remains motionless, uncomprehending.

KAY
(in Spanish)  Cause you don't speak a lick of Spanish.  Do you?

Kay motions to the other 6 would-be immigrants.

KAY
Vayanse. You others, go on.

INS LEADER
Sir--

KAY
Pasen al-furgon v larguense de aqui! Take the van and go.

INS LEADER
Sir, you can't just--

KAY
DON'T "SIR" ME-- YOU HAVE NO IDEA WHO YOU'RE DEALING WITH.

Silence in the woods.

KAY
(to Dee) Run a 6-11.  And grab me a B-140.

Dee nods. Starts back to the car as the confused but thankful Mexicans 
rush into the van, and Kay turns, calmly, back to the now trembling 
"Jose." The van lurches into the night.  The INS guys watch, eyes wide.  
The Van Driver, too, as Kay circles Jose, looking him over closely.

KAY
You disappoint me, Jose.  Leaving your country like that.  Putting all 
those poor people in danger.  I mean... It is Jose, isn't it? Or is 
it...

Kay suddenly removes a knife.  Places it near Jose's belly.

And which fall to the ground, revealing that Jose's clothes, skin and 
head were just hiding who Jose really is.

A GREEN, SCALY, 6-ARMED SPACE ALIEN
Who unfolds-- that is, he was actually bent over to fit in his 
skin/clothes camouflage outfit-- and stands to his full height: about 
eight skinny, scaly feet.

The only part of his camouflage not crumpled on the ground is the 
humanesque head, which he still lamely holds in one of his six hands.  
It's propped up by a stick-- like a puppet would be-- and continues to 
make expressions as he holds it.

KAY
Mikey? Well well well. It is, isn't it?  Now, didn't we agree you're 
not leaving Nazca till you erased all the lines in the sand?  Alright.  
Why don't you hand me your head and put your arms up.

Mikey gives Kay his "head." Kay looks at it, nods, actually somewhat 
impressed, then tosses it into the dirt.  The INS guys don't know what 
to stare at; the alien, or the head, which continues to make 
expressions in the dirt.

The Van Driver faints, still handcuffed to the tree.

KAY
Now I want you to talk to me, Mikey.  Why'd you bum the ride?  Where 
were you going?

The Alien speaks in a blend of syllables that sounds like a record 
being played backwards.  Kay pulls out a pocket translator-- like 
English/French computer that happens to house million languages.

As he speaks, a small speaker biceps the translation, allowing Mikey to 
understand.  (Again, titles are bold.)

MIKEY
Nowhere.

KAY
Nowhere, huh? odd you'd get all dressed up like that just to be going 
nowhere.

Mikey shifts.  Hems and haws.  Like a two-bit criminal who knows he's 
been caught.

MIKEY
Er. well, nowhere special.

KAY
I don't believe you, Mikey.  And you know why I don't believe you?  
Cause last time you said that you and your pals left eight dozen empty 
beer cans on the other side of the moon.

MIKEY
Yeah, wall, you know, I was just going there... to pick then up.

Dee returns.  Nods "okay." Kay nods back, keeps pressing Mikey.

KAY
Oh yeah?  Well if you're suddenly such a good samaritan, why didn't you 
file a departure report, like you're supposed to?  You know how many 
rules you've just broken?

MIKEY
I dunno. One?

KAY
Try seven.  From unauthorized mobilization to appearing unconcealed 
before a resident.  You wanna tell me what's going on?  Huh?

MIKEY
It's... coming.

KAY
What are you talking about, it's coming?  What's coming?

But scared Mikey just shakes his head.  And starts inching away..

KAY
Mikey.  Hold it, Mikey-- I want you to talk to me.  Mikey.  I'm telling 
you.. don't make me... Mikey
(turns to Dee)  Gimme the 140.

DEE
(eyes widening)  Oh. Shit. it's in the car--

KAY
What?  I thought you just--

Mikey now breaks away and runs right toward the INS Agents, who-- as 
soon as they register what's happening-- back away in fear--

INS AGENTS
No. Oh God. No.

Mikey's mouth opens really wide.  And as Mikey's just about to eat the 
INS leader--

KAY -
Oh, Mikey...

Kay FIRES and--

The INS LEADER recoils in a fetal ball of screaming terror as what's 
left of Mikey just lands and splats all over him, as though someone 
just dumped a bucket of alienesque goo...

Kay looks the INS Guy, still screaming in terror.  Shakes his head.. 
and WE CUT TO:

EXT.  WOODS - A MOMENT LATER
More trucks, van, cars are on the scene.  The only demarkation of any 
note are the words "Special Services" on some of them.

There's a crew of people wearing dark coveralls doing some sort of 
"clean-up" operation.  We see some tearing away of foliage and some 
fires being carefully set and extinguished.

Kay, still frustrated, walks through the center, shout a few passing 
orders--

KAY
Little more burn on the perimeter-they weren't roasting smores here.  
Dig out this hole a little.  Cmon, I know it's late, but the sooner we 
get it right, the sooner we'll all be home.

DEE
(Approaches)  Kay, I'm sorry...

KAY
Don't worry about it.  Four-Eyes'll run a track on him.  We'll get that 
son of a... whatever the hell he's the son of.

And he keeps walking toward the most pressing of the tasks at hand:

The INS Men and the Van Driver, who are standing in a clump just on the 
outskirts of the scene, excited by what they just witnessed.  The INS 
Leader's just finishing cleaning himself off with a towel.

INS LEADER
I gotta tell Beef, he's gonna freak.

OTHER INS GUY
Beef.  And Charlie!  And Jim! Wait'll we tell Jim!

KAY
(approaching) Okay, I need your attention.

STILL OTHER INS GUY
Shit I wish I had my Video camera--

KAY
I need your attention.

They shut up.  Turn to Kay, who holds a sleek, tubular metallic device 
the size of a toothbrush holder.  At one end is a small dual probe-- 
like that through which a current could be conducted.  Also on the 
front is an infra red eye.  On the side is a numbered dial.

KAY
This is a neurelyser. it was a gift from some friends from out of town.  
I need you to look at it.  This red eye here isolates and measures the 
nature of the electronic impulses currently in your brain.  More 
specifically, the ones -for memory, which it will then block. (as the 
Leader's eyes wander toward Kay's crew)  I said I need you to look 
right here.

INS LEADER
Why?  What are you gonna do?

KAY
Actually that's a very good question.  The answer-- if You'll Just look 
at this Part-- is here.

He points to the tip, and obscures it Just a little, causing the He to 
-actually have to look closer in order to see it.  And they do.

OTHER INS GUY
Who... Are you?  Really?

KAY
Really?  I'm just a figment of your imagination.

And that's when Kay closes his eyes as a rapid series of electronic 
pulses shoots between the two prongs of the probe at the end of that 
neuralyser.  He throws on a pair of government-issue wire-rimmed 
sunglasses, and opens his eyes.

When he does, all the INS Men and the Van Driver are sitting, silent, 
eyes wide, just staring at the flashing pulses.

KAY.
God, we're a stupid breed.

Kay waits as a timer on the side quickly winds down from 30 minute to 
0. The pulses stop and INS Guys and The Driver all open their eyes.  
They look like they've just awoken from a concussion.

Kay pockets the neuralyser and speaks to the Men as they "come to.

KAY
You men are lucky.  It's rare so many can survive such a blast.

The men look around, baffled and confused.

INS LEADER
Blast?  What are you talking about?

Kay indicates the surrounding area, which his crew has manipulates to 
look like an explosion had recently gone off.

KAY
Underground gas vein.  Next time, be more careful when you shoot off 
your guns.

INS LEADER
What?

KAY
You heard me. (pointing at the leader) You two, especially.

Key leaves the absolutely baffled INS  One, who, though confused, turns 
and blames the Leader, who nervously shrugs and denies whatever it is 
he can't remember he may have done.  Dee appears again.

DEE
Kay, listen, I dunno what got into--

KAY
Don't worry about it.  It's been a long night.  Speaking of which-- you 
owe me a cup of coffee, remember?

Dee looks at Kay, whole able to muster some not ungenuine empathy. Dee 
nods.  Smiles.  And WE CUT TO:
EXT. 7/11 - LATER THAT NIGHT
The plain, unmarked, powder-blue LTD parks outside the convenience 
store as and Kay and Dee get out, mid-conversation.

DEE
...'member that?  How many pink-heads were there that night? 14? 15?

Right in the New York Subway. Remember how scared you were?

KAY
I wasn't scared...

DEE
Oh yeah?  The hell you weren't. Little pither just out of school...

They reach the door.  Kay pulls it open.  Holds it for Dee.

KAY
Grab the coffee, will ya?  I told Zed I'd give him a buzz.

DEE
Listen-- do me a favor-- don't mention the 140 thing--

KAY
Don't worry about it.

Dee nods and heads inside.  Kay pulls a special 2-way radio from inside 
his coat.  Hits a button.

ELDERLY VOICE ON RADIO (ZED)
Kay?  How'd it go?

KAY
We lost Mikey.

ZED
How's Dee?

KAY
(watching Dee in store) Fine.  Good.

ZED'S VOICE (a knowing pause)
How long have you been covering for him, Kay?

Another pause.  Kay continues to watch Dee through the glass.  The 
coffee ripples from the slight unsteadiness in Deals stride.

KAY
I dunno... half a year, year, maybe...

Though Zed doesn't see Kay, he knows him well enough to sense what Kay 
may be feeling.

ZED'S VOICE
Hey, it's alright.  He brought you in, nobody expects you to be 
objective.

Through the glass, we see Dee paying at the counter.

KAY
So... now what?  Cattle call again?

ZED'S VOICE
We've got about eight or nine prospects	I want you look--

KAY
Yeah, I'll talk to you.

He hangs up because Dee is backing the door open and turning with the 
coffee.  Dee hands Kay his cup. Kay Looks around.

DEE
Helluva night, isn't it?

KAY
Yup.  Sure is.

Kay looks at Dee, then looks up, into the darkness, and WE CUT TO:

EXT.  DEEP IN THE UNIVERSE 
The POV SHOT -- again.  RUSHING THROUGH THE DARKNESS.
Zooming through space.  Heading somewhere.  We begin to see the tip of 
a galaxy coming into view, way, way, way off in the distance.  Is it 
our galaxy?  We don't know.  And WE CUT TO:

INT.  SMALL APARTMENT - DAY

A handsome, just shaved-and-showered YOUNG MAN finishes tying his tie 
before a mirror.  It's clear this is the beginning of a big day

YOUNG MAN
Yes, sir, Mr. President.  May I get that door for you, Mr. President? 
(throwing on suit jacket) What's that, air?  Oh, a bullet?  Hang on-- 
please, allow me to dive in front of it for you. oh... you're welcome, 
Mr. President.

He finishes buttoning the jacket.  Stands straight.  Looks sharp.

YOUNG MAN
What's that, air?  My name?  James D.Cowan the Third.  Sir.

And he salutes.  And we HEAR APPLAUSE, and WE CUT TO:

EXT.  U.S. SECRET SERVICE ACADEMY - GRADUATION HALL - DAY
Cars pull up and proud parents get out with their finely-dressed sons 
and daughters.  Everyone is in little groups; friends, family.  Except-
-

COWAN
Who walks, alone, toward the hall.  He glances around at the academy, 
grounds.  Proud.  Takes a camera out of his bag.  Holds his arm out and 
takes his own photo with it.  We hear applause and CUT TO:

U.S. SECRET SERVICE ACADEMY GRADUATION - A LITTLE WHILE LATER
Amid the pomp and ceremony and the flags and the packed crowd and the 
hundreds of graduating cadets sits.-..

GRADUATING CADET JAMES D. COWAN III
As he listens while cadets stand and shimmy up toward the front podium 
as their names are being called off by:

CADET CLASS SUPERVISOR AMERY WALLACE
Who addresses the gathered crowd of sharply dressed graduates and their 
proud parents and friends.

WALLACE (AMPLIFIED OVER P.A. SYSTEM)
Leo Beckerman...   Mark F Candrowski...

ANGLE ON COWARIS ROW
As graduating Cadet Leo Beckerman starts down the raw, followed a 
moment later by Cadet Mark Candrowski.  Each shimmies past:

COWAN
As he waits eagerly for his name to be called.  They're only one away 
now...

WALLACE (CONTINUING)
Zander Collier...

Collier gets up.  Cowan's next.  He prepares to stand.

WALLACE (CONTINUING)
Mark DeBonis...

The cadet on the other side of Cowan gets up.

Cowan is confused.  Did they forget?  He looks around.  Confusion 
shifts to terror as... the next one goes.  Then the next guy...

WALLACE (CONTINUING)
Stuart Donerkiel... Daniel Dvorsky...

CLOSER - COWAN
it's like a terrible dream. only, he's wide, wide awake.  And he's the 
sitting in his now-empty row.  As he looks around, confused and scared, 
WE CUT TO:

EXT.  CEREMONY GROUNDS - A LITTLE WHILE LATER
Photos, fun.  Everyone's relaxed, having a good time.  Except--

COWAN
who rushes to Cadet Class Supervisor Wallace, who is breaking away from 
posing for a photo with some cadets.  Wallace is a popular photo op, 
and he's pursued by many cadets.

COWAN
Sir!  Agent Wallace, air!

We get the feeling that Agent Wallace isn't all that disappointed t be 
breaking this news to Cowan, who follows behind him as he walks.

WALLACE
Sorry, Cowan, I found out literally just before the ceremony.' 
Apparently you're to report for further review.

COWAN
Further... what are you talking about, air?  That makes no sense-- I 
hold three cadet class records--

WALLACE
Actually, it didn't come from me.

Wallace stops.  'Smiles for a photo with a couple of cadets.  Cowan 
doesn't bother to bother about the fact that he's in the photo.  He's 
clearly frustrated, and, like a bronco in a stall, he's finding it hard 
to keep from bursting out.

COWAN
Bull... loney- Sir. (off Wallace's look) I'm sorry.  Sir, I'm sorry.  
Sir. (as Wallace resumes walking)
I just, I find it hard to believe that it didn't come from you.  I 
mean, everything here comes from you.

WALLACE
Well this didn't.

COWAN
Then where did it-- ? Sir.  Forgive me, but it makes no sense. worked 
my ass off to grad--

Wallace, reaching the end of the grass (and the end of his rope), turns 
to Cowan.

WALLACE
Look. I don't know why.  I could guess, however.  Maybe it's your 
attitude.  Or that you're not even close to a team player.  Or that you 
always seen to think you know more than your supervisors.

COWAN
Actually, sir--

WALLACE
Cowan.  Do you ever think that maybe, just maybe, other people might be 
right and you might be wrong?

COWAN
All the time, sir.

WALLACE
You do?

COWAN
Yes, air.  But I'm usually wrong. Sir.

Wallace looks at him.  Even if he could try and understand, Wallace 
just shakes his head and walks away.  It's out of his hands, anyway.

Cowan is left standing there, watching his supervisor walk away in 
front of him while his classmates celebrate behind him.  CUT TO:

EXT.  WASHINGTON D. C. STREETS  DAY
A taxi pulls away and Cowan stands with the now-opened envelope and a 
piece of paper in his hand.  He looks at an address on the paper, then 
looks up, puzzled, at the building in front of his.  It says: "UNITED 
STATES IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE".

INT.  LOBBY - INS BUILDING
Cowan speaks to a Receptionist.

COWAN
I think some computer screwed up or something, cause--

VOICE  (echoing across lobby)
You're in the right place.

Cowan turns. Standing across the lobby is ZED.  He's a career GMan.  An 
old school bureaucrat or, at least, that's how he appear: on first 
glance.  And WE CUT TO:

WALKING THE LABYRINTH CORRIDORS OF THE INS BUILDING
Cowan walks alongside Zed.  They pass hallway after hallway of 
government offices, heading into the remote bowels of the building.  
Rather than get fancier, everything gets more and more plain.

We sense from	Cowan's attitude that he's trying hard to be positive

COWAN
... think that maybe my supervisors referred me here because of certain 
issues which I assure you I have spent a good deal of time working very 
hard to correct--

ZED
Your supervisors have no idea why you're here.

COWAN
They don't?

ZED
They don't.  Now, son.  If you get the job, you're going to be working 
with some very particular people who like to do things in some very 
particular ways.  Here's a little piece of advice:  (referring to 
Cowan's mouth)  Don't use this so much.

He reaches and opens a door which is very plainly marked "US INS, 
Special Services," and enters, leaving Cowan outside the door to 
hesitates beat before asking:

COWAN
Excuse me.  If I get what job?

CUT TO:  7 OF THE HOTTEST YOUNG RECRUITS IN THE COUNTRY
Sitting at metal desks in a room SO plain it could be anywhere.  Just 7 
people (including Cowan), all ears, all somewhat confused, all 
listening intently as Zed sits before them, on a folding chair.

ZED
You're here cause you're the best of the best.  FBI, CIA, Secret 
Service, Navy SEALS, Marines, Air Force, Army.  And we're looking for 
the best of the best of the best.  What will follow is a series of 
simple tests designed to quantify motor skills, hand-eye coordination, 
concentration and focus, stamina... I see we have a question.

Cowan's hand is, indeed, up.

COWAN
Why, uh... I'm sorry, cause no one really asked this but... why, 
exactly, are we doing this?

There's a slight beat of silence.  Then one of the young recruits 
eagerly raises his hand.  Zed calls on him.

ZED
Son?

EAGER YOUNG RECRUIT
(loud and formal)  Jake Jensen, FBI Academy, graduate with honors.  
We're looking for the best of the best of the best, air!

Cowan laughs.  Tries to stifle it.  But can't.

ZED
What's so funny, cadet Cowan?

COWAN
I... I don't know, air.  This guy. Mr. "Best of the best of the best... 
" I don't know. (realizing nobody in with him on this) It's just still 
find it a little... (totally serious) humorous.  I'm sorry.  Sir.

Short pause.  The Zed continues. 

ZED
... Okay, then.  The test.  Standard stuff-- written, oral, physical.  
Just do your best.  Dave?

A clipboard-carrying, nondescript office functionary type, DAVE, holds 
the exit door open.

DAVE
Follow me, please.

INT.  TESTING ROOM - A SHORT WHILE LATER SERIES OF SHOTS - THE WRITTEN 
TEST
It's a thick document-- reasoning skills, general knowledge, diagrams; 
like an SAT.  People seem to be really powering through it, filling 
things in left and right, filling in answer after answer.  Some are 
almost done.

Cowan, on the other hand, is really struggling.

CLOSE ON HIS TEST
He's only filled in a portion of the answers, and, in some places, he's 
left entire pages blank.  Then, on one particular question (the one he 
is working an right now), he's been writing and writing and writing-- 
down the page, up the side, around the back.  He checks someone else's 
page-- they answered it in three words.

THE CLOCK ticks away.  The last two Recruits finish, closing their 
booklets proudly.  This makes--

COWAN
Even more nervous.  He looks at his test: he's answered less than 20% 
of the questions.

He sees a face obscurred behind the glass, staring, unemotional.  Then 
that face disappears and the door opens and KAY enters the room.

And just walks up to him and takes the test away.  And WE CUT TO:

INT.  SMALL EXAMINING ROOM - A MOMENT LATER - MORE QUICK SHOTS
As one recruit after another says a variation on the same thing:

FBI RECRUIT
No, air.  None at all.

CUT TO:
CIA RECRUIT
None, sir.

CUT TO:
MARINE RECRUIT
None.

CUT TO:
NAVY SEAL RECRUIT
Not at all.  Never.

AND THEN CUT TO:
COWAN
... Uh... could you repeat the question, sir?

REVERSE ANGLE
Zed sits across a desk from him.  He holds a PORTFOLIO in his hand.

ZED
The question was... do you now-- or have you ever-- experienced self 
doubts, insecurities, or anxieties which make it difficult for you to 
function in a normal routine?

COWAN
Well... you know, when you say "normal," what, exactly...

ZED
For instance... (reads from the portfolio) It says here you lost your 
parents at 15, and, since then...

COWAN
Sir.  I thought those records were sealed.

ZED
(as if to say "you should know better") We're the government, Cowan. 

Cowan pauses.  Nods.  Then just hangs his head.  And WE CUT TO:
A SHOOTING GALLERY

In line behind a barricade are the 7 recruits-to-be, all standing with 
a gun.  Dave speaks to the group.

DAVE
When I pull the curtain, the enemy will make itself known.  You are 
allowed one shot.  Use it wisely.  Ready?

All 7 nod yes.  Cowan takes a breath.  Dave pulls a curtain...

DAVE
... quickly revealing:

THE TARGETS
which are an amazing array of colors, lights and movement-- a 
holographic swirl of alienesque SHAPES and CHARACTERS unlike anything 
we've seen.  In less than 2 seconds over 25 figures move 
simultaneously.  Humans.  Aliens.  In, out, in circles...

And... also within 2 seconds: SIX SHOTS are fired at once.  And then, 
only an eighth of a second later, A SECOND SHOT is fired.

And everyone sort of looks at Cowan, who puts his gun down last.

There's an awkward silence.  Then the door opens.  Light pours in.  And 
through the light comes Kay.

Even the highly competitive cadets can't help but feel some sympathy as 
Kay walks straight to Cowan, who lowers his eyes.

KAY
The hell happened?

COWAN
Hesitated, sir.

KAY
I'm not talking about that.  I'm talking about your choice of targets.

Kay motions to the gallery.  Most prevalent in the frozen table of 
creatures is a lunging, snarling beast, which is about to attack a man 
with a briefcase. There are six bullet holes in its chest.

Kay then motions to the back corner of the gallery, where there is one 
bullet hole in an eight year old girl carrying school books.

KAY
You shot an eight year old girl.

COWAN
Uh... yes.  Apparently I did, air.

KAY
The hell were you thinking?

COWAN
Well, I dunno.  I mean, when you looked at all the other options... it 
just seemed sorta obvious.

KAY
Obvious?  Why don't you and I have a little talk about the obvious... 
outside.

Kay indicates the door.  The door which Zed now holds open. Sideways 
glances dart from the other recruits as a sheepish Cowan is lead to the 
door by Kay.

KAY
First of all I it's obvious to me that you don't belong in this group 
of highly trained men and women...

Zed enters, and as Cowan-is led out, he hears Zed, behind him, speaking 
to the others:

ZED
You're everything we've come to expect from the finest of our nation's 
finest.  What do you say we move on?

IN THE INS OFFICE - CONTINUING
Cowan follows Kay toward a door marked "EXIT."

COWAN
Sir, before you boot me, I just want to explain.  I mean, okay, you got 
a goat-guy with a hook for a head...

KAY
Cowan--

COWAN
Wait.  Uh-- sir.  Please.  Anyway.  Hook-head-guy.  I'm thinking "how 
can he think with a hook for a head?" Answer: that's not his head.  
Then I think--

KAY
Cowan--

COWAN
of course not, cause his head is that thing way on the other side of 
the road, cause, if you looked at it, the entire sidewalk full of stuff 
was actually ONE GUY and--

KAY
Cowan-- will you shut your god damed mouth?

Pause.  Cowan's silent.  Then he quickly says:

COWAN
Anyway-the-girls-books-were-way-too advanced-for-an-eight-year-old-and 
she-was-the-only-one-who-appeared-to have-a-motive.

Another pause.  Kay looks at him.  Then rolls his eyes and walks away.  
Cowan pursues.

COWAN
What?

IN THE BACKGROUND,
Through a window, we see the 6 other recruits, in another room, lined 
against a wall.  Zed pulls out a neuralyser.

BACK WITH COWAN AND KAY - UNDER THE "EXIT" SIGN
COWAN
Look, air, I'm sorry.  I realize you've made your decision. but I 
really wanted this job.

KAY
You don't even know what it is yet.

COWAN
Yes.  That's true.  Actually, at this point, I just want A job.  Wait.  
What do you mean... yet?

KAY
(turns)  It means I know you think you got a beat on things.  But trust 
me, you don't.  You don't even have an inkling of a hint of a clue as 
to what's really going on in the world.  (as Cowan tries to speak)  And 
if you want to find out even a little, you'll shut up and come with me. 
And if you don't, fine.  Go with them. Cause I'm not interested in 
breaking in another little hot-shot only to have him wig or die on me 
just when I'm starting to count on him.  So forgive me if you don't 
exactly hear me ringing little bells and whistling welcome aboard, but 
this isn't the Love Boat.  And I'm not Captain Fucking Stubing.  Now 
I'm sorry.  But this has been one long, bad day.

In the background, we see a FLASH.  Then Zed ushers the other recruits 
toward a distant door.  Cowan turns back to Kay.

COWAN
So... this door.  It's... not an exit...  ?

KAY
It's not even a fucking door.

Cowan looks at Kay.  Looks around the room.  Looks back at Kay... Who 
then reaches to a spot on the wall next to the door, and pulls the wall 
open.  Cowan hesitates... then steps inside.

And is suddenly face to face with a large, big-eyed, big-mouthed PURPLE 
CREATURE carrying office supplies, who turns and says--

LARGE PURPLE CREATURE
Welcome.

--before moving out of the way and revealing:

A HUGE, AMAZINGLY HIGH-TECH, 10000 SQUARE FOOT OFFICE
sleek, clean, and so simple it's scary; with small titanium keypads on 
clean white desks, as if the "brains" are all on (very large) chips 
stored behind the (very clean) walls.  There's also a nearby:

STORAGE AREA -- with confiscated weapons, odd vehicles, artifacts.

About two dozen human employees go-about their business-- filing, 
typing, tracking... There's a casual, matter-of-fact, typical office 
feel to the place.

The humans are joined by another dozen alien employees of all sizes 
colors, and gravitational predilections.  There's a Ogofer"-- an 
officious rodenty human-like assistant who literally runs around on the 
ceiling. One apparent "secretary" consists of seven kulti-size hovering 
spheres which busy themselves at a cubicle.

COWAN
Holy shit.

Cowan crosses a table by the storage area on which the "gofer" has just 
placed several odd-shaped little rings.

KAY
Listen, I wouldn't...

Cowan picks one up-- and is suddenly YANKED like a hooked fish UP THE 
CEILING, where he spins like a deflating balloon and then drops with a 
thud to the floor.  Using tongs, Ray takes it.

KAY (CONTINUING)
...touch that.

COWAN
What the hell...

KAY
Kids' game a couple galaxies over.

COWAN
I guess I lost:

KAY
You got smeared.

Suddenly Zed appears above Cowan.  Offers a hand.  Helps him up.

ZED
You're a god damn fruitcake of an oddball.  You're incredibly raw.  
You're not even all that bright-except in odd pockets.  But fortunately 
for us, those are the pockets we're looking for.  So whattya say?  
Shall we show you around?

CUT TO: THE UNIVERSE

Planets suspended in dark orbit.  Distant stars...

ZED (O.S.)
The universe.  We're here.

Suddenly ZED WALKS INTO FRAME... followed by Cowan and Kay.

They are walking through a 3-D HOLOGRAPHIC MODEL OF THE UNIVERSE, with 
lighted red dots all over it (representing aliens' locations)

ZED (CONTINUING)
Around World War Two, a few of us talked the administration into 
chartering a branch of the INS to look after aliens.  Everyone thought 
we were nuts.  Except the aliens.

They stop at--

THE OFFICE "WATERING HOLE' - CONTINUOUS
There are all sorts of odd employee-oriented APPLIANCES. Zed pours 
coffee.  As Zed walks Cowan through, Kay moves in and out of the 
conversation; mostly he is busy signing papers, okaying things 
assistants are showing him, etc.

ZED (CONTINUING)
They contacted us, told us we could have a trial run.  We made a deal-
they give us information, technology, we'll let them use the planet.  
One rule-- they insist upon it from us, and we insist upon it from 
them: no one must know.

During the above, the "gopher" stops for coffee.  Though his feet are 
on the ceiling, his head is at exactly the same level as theirs-- it's 
just upside down.  He's not noticed except by darting glances from 
Cowan as he mixes creme, sugar, and some fluorescent orange substance 
into it, then heads back to work.

ZED
So at any given time we could have four, five hundred of em hanging 
around.  We have exiled kings, vagrants, truckers, vacationers, 
creatures aid-migration.  Most are decent folks, just minding their 
business. our job is to keep an eye on am.

Cowan darts one more glance at the holographic universe as Zed hand him 
his coffee and they come upon:

AN ALIEN CREATURE - "FOUR HUNDRED FORTY-FOUR EYES"
Sitting at a desk before a wall which houses hundreds of tiny video 
surveillance screens.

And this bony, grey creature has an eye focused on the screen.  They 
jut from a pinny head like a wildly overgrown shock of hair. 444-Eyes 
controls each image by the very rapid movements of three thin fingers 
on a simple keypad.

WIDER SHOT - CONTINUOUS
The three men step up behind 444-Eyes, conversation continuing.

ZED
With the help of Sector 7 occulo gicals like 444 -Eyes here - 4Eyes for 
short.

Though most all of 444-Eyes' eyes are on the hundreds of screens,-a 
dozen or so eyes hook around and scope Cowan out.

ZED
You got over ten eyes... I think she likes you.

444-Eyes' eyes return to the screen, and she patters away.  The screens 
unify and we see live images of things that-are going on as we speak.  
We should get the notion that aliens who look different are in spots 
where they can't be seen. Aliens who look human are functioning right 
out in public.

Some of the aliens we see are: An abominable snowman in a cave.  A 
troll under a bridge.  A human-looking alien in a laundromat (one of 
those people you see doing odd laundry at odd hours).  A human-looking 
alien (selling make-up at Penney's).  Bigfoot.  The Loch Ness Monster.  
All this is flashing by during:

ZED
In order to land here, you have to be a signatory of the treaty.  And 
the rules are simple: remain unseen, or blend in.  Mistakes have cost 
us dearly. (re screen)  Roswell, 1947.  Stonehenge.  The Pyramids.  
Crop circles.  Lines of Nazca-- (to Kay, whols off unloading a couple 
weapons)
That reminds me, I gotta bring Ella down from Anchorage. (back to the 
screen)  Bigfoot.  He leaves a footprint, once, it's been a crew in our 
side ever since.  It's why we had to start those damn tabloid rags. 
lets the pressure out a little, gives them a way to communicate with 
each other.

Cowan looks at a typical "National 'Enquirer' type paper.  Headline 
"Man as Fat as own House." Kay sets a couple weapons on a desk.

KAY
We have one motto: Peace on Earth.

COWAN
And Goodwill Toward Man?

KAY
No. just peace on Earth.

COWAN
I gotta be honest about something.

ZED
You think we're nuts.

COWAN
No-- it makes sense.  Cause I gotta tell ya, when I was in third grade 
they told me I was crazy cause I swore that our teacher was from, like, 
Venus or something.

ZED
Mrs. Edelson?

Cowan, stunned, looks at Zed as 4-Eyes boots her onto the screen: Mean 
face, cat glasses.  Bony fingers.  Extremely well hidden tail.

KAY
Jupiter, actually. well, one of the moons.

ZED
So whattya say, kid?  You in or out? 

Cowan looks around.  The staff.  The equipment.

COWAN
Once I thought the biggest thing I'll ever do was guard the president.

KAY
Oh, you'll still, be guarding him.

ZED
Only the damn guy won't know it.

COWAN
What happens if I say no?

KAY
It's easy.  You work your way up the secret service, one day stand with 
the President, meet the most important people on the planet, fulfill 
your dreams, live happily ever after.

COWAN
And if I say yes?

KAY
Lose your name and identity, work endless hours an behalf people who 
don't know you exist, and abandon any hope that you might one day feel 
even the slightest bit sure of your place in the universe.

Cowan looks around one more time.  By now everyone in the office has 
gathered behind Zed and Kay and are waiting for Cowan's answer.

Cowan looks at them.  Looks back at Zed and Kay... and nods.

COWAN
Sir.  I've never had a clue as to where I fit in anyway...

The staff then jumps to work.  Several assistants immediately arrive 
with things they hand to Kay and Zed.

ZED
From now on, you'll respond only to the name "Jay." You'll dress in 
appropriate attire specially sanctioned by the INS Special Services.  
You're not to stand out in any way.  Understand?

COWAN
Yes, sir.

Zed hands Cowan a thick booklet.  A few other items.

ZED
Read this.  Come to work tomorrow. We'll see you then.

Cowan looks around. one last time.  And WE CUT TO:

EXT.  WASHINGTON D.C. - GEORGETOWN - NIGHT
Cowan, carrying his Men in Black information in a sack, walks through 
the dense Friday night crowd on M street.  He walks slowly Taking in 
the world...

He is surrounded by a swirl of humanity.    CUT TO:

INT.  ZED'S OFFICE - SAME
CLOSE ON COMPUTER SCREEN-- we see Cowan's birth certificate, driver's 
licence, social security card, library card... everything

ZED AND DAVE
are operating a computer.

ON THE COMPUTER SCREEN
Is the full name-- JAMES DARRYL COWAN III.  Then Zed Punches A couple 
of keys, and the cursor begins to sweep from right to left, beginning 
to eliminating the right-most letters of Cowan's name...

ZED
Well... it looks like James D. Cowan the Third...

EXT. GEORGETOWN STREET - SAME

Cowan wanders toward a coffee house called "NITE OWL." Sits at an 
outside table amidst the throngs of Georgetown's M Street.  He pull a 
pile of US INS Special Services information from his bag.

AT THE OFFICE - SAME

CLOSE ON COMPUTER SCREEN
It says "JAMES " Then "JAM"...

ZED (CONTINUES) ... is no longer with us.

And then, finally, all that's left on the screen is the letter "J", Zed 
punches "save." And we CUT BACK TO:

EXT.  NITEOWL COFFEE HOUSE - GEORGETOWN - N STREET - NIGHT 
Cowan-- or, rather, JAY-- looks at a leather-bound book entitled 
"Active on Earth." He opens it.
It's monogrammed, simply, with the letter J.

Jay looks through the book.  He sees strange photos of aliens, along 
with descriptive information.  Next to the aliens' photos are their 
corresponding human identities.  And more information.  He looks at 
few.  Then looks up.  All around him, the people swarm and move.

And, oddly, everything seems to have a deeper perspective. Jay looks 
closely at the world around him.  Could any of these people be aliens?  
Could it be...

... The bag lady?  The exceedingly friendly frat boy?  The goatee, 
tatooed, body-pierced 90'S guy? -The improbably-dressed european 
tourist?  The goofy geek?

A cute waitress sets down a cappucino.  Hands him his approved credit 
card receipts Jay looks at it, then looks at his "Carte Noire" and 
shakes his head, impressed.

WAITRESS
What you reading?

JAY
Oh, it's, um... You know, Psycho-lunatic alien conspiracy junk.

She nods.  'Whatever.  She's used to all sorts in her coffee house.

WAITRESS
Well, enjoy.  If You need anything else, my name's Cynthia.  (starts 
away, then starts back)  
Oh, this might be a weird question, but: do You think this skirt shows 
too much leg?

JAY
Huh?  Oh, well, I dunno.  I guess not.

WAITRESS
Okay.  Thanks.

She smiles and heads off.  He shakes his head, then turns back to his 
book.  Flips a few more pages. Sees the "Man as Fat as own House." Sees 
the alien that used to be Mikey. Sees a photo of the Waitress, Cynthia.

Does a double-take. Turns. Spots Cynthia across the crowded coffee 
house.  This time he looks closer and glimpses a brief flash of what no 
one else notices: The waitress actually has three legs.

By the time it registers with Jay, the waitress Cynthia is already off 
across the floor, serving iced decaf mocha lattes to a table of 
clueless pseudointellectuals... and on Jay, sitting under the "stars-
on-black-sky" sign of the Mite-Owl Coffee House... WE CUT To

EXT.  DEEP SPACE

The POV SHOT.  Again.  COMING CLOSER.  Still Approaching a galaxy Maybe 
even OUR galaxy.  We see what may be PLUTO... and WE CUT TO:

EARLY MORNING - INT.  LOCKER ROOM

The Men in Black locker room feels more like a hall or raze, or a 
museum.  This is because most of the "Men" are no longer around.  But 
the lockers all show signs of years of use-- lines and marks an 
stickers and colors and gifts... and letters... and locks.

DEE, fully dressed, is sitting in front of his locker.  It's filled 
with mementos and gifts and is redolent of years of use.  He is jus 
sitting there.  Staring. staring at:

Jay, who sits on the other side of the room, in front of a looker only 
the letter "J" adorns its clean door looks at DEE.

JAY
Any... I dunno, words of advice or anything'?

Dee just looks at Jay.  What can he say?  All the years.  All the 
experiences.  He thinks for a while.  Then just stands.  Walks over to 
Jay.  Pats him on the shoulder.  Nods.

DEE
Lean into it.

And walks out. Jay watches him go.  Then turns.  Opens his locker. 
Inside hangs a simple dark suit.  Nothing flashy.  Nothing stylish.  He 
pulls it off the hanger.  Looks at it.  Meanwhile--

INT.  INS OFFICE - SPECIAL SERVICE WING - MORNING SAME 7 A.M. 
It's the morning briefing. Around the room are: Zed, at the head, on a 
folding chair with a clipboard.  Kay sips coffee.  There are a handful 
of aliens in the room as well: 7 Spheres, the upside-down Gopher guy, 
4-Eyes, the purple creature..

And there are 5 tv monitors also in the room.  On each monitor is 
another INS Special Services Agent.  Different "Men in Black" in 
different parts of the country and the world.

It's in odd combination of high-tech and low-tech.  Jay enters the 
room, now wearing the suit.  He comes in, sits next to Kay.

JAY (SOTTO)
Nice threads.  What, were they having a sale at C&R?

Kay says nothing.  Jay gets the message.  He mimes "zipping his mouth 
shut" as Zed is speaking to the group.

ZED
Ella... welcome back to-the lower 48.

ELIE, a female INS Agent on one of the monitors, nods.

ZED (CONTINUING)
I brought Ella down from Anchorage last night.  She's out in Colorado. 
We've got a flurry in the general area.  We've lost Mikey-- remember 
him?-- We've got one on the move somewhere in northwest (more) Texas at 
the moment.  Keep us abreast of anything unusual-- departure permits, 
relocation papers...

ELLE
You got it.

ZED
And finally.  Everybody, meet Jay. Associate agent.

Around the room and on all 5 live feed tv monitors are various adlib 
"hellos" and "welcomes," etc.

ZED
Let's hope he lasts.  Kay.  We got a researcher in Maryland, discovered 
a new life form.. Be an easy one for our young friend.

He hands a tear-out to Kay.  Zed then speaks to the group.

ZED
Everybody, listen up: we've had a tremendous amount of movement lately.  
Be aware.  Be safe.  Have a good day. (then, calling) Oh, uh... Cowan?

COWAN
Yes, air? -- OOOMPH.

Suddenly there's a blur and a dazed man arrives/appears and thrusts a 
small pack into his gut.  It takes a second for the Hat Doplaresque 
trail to disappear and for him to "adjust.* After regaining 
equilibrium, he nods to Cowan with the tousled look of one who just got 
off the world's most amazing roller coaster.  It Dave's-- the guy who 
ran the test.  Only now we're seeing him in full form.  He speaks as he 
looks: fast and frazzled.

DAVE
Whooooo-boy.  Nice to see you again. Didn't have a chance to say 
congrats. So: congrats.  Welcome aboard. (then, as if suddenly 
remembering something) Damn Where's my head?
(taking it off, "looking at it," then putting it back) 	There it 
is, God damn it! Nice to meet you. My	name is... (Dave utters 
something sounding like a cross between a foghorn and a belch)  But you 
can call me Dave.

And just as quickly, he dissappears.  It all happened so fast, Cowen is 
just left standing there, holding the pile of stuff.

ZED
Hell of an assistant, isn't he?  Damn guy moves so fast, he actually 
gets there before you even ask for him.

COWAN
Sorta literally gets ahead of himself.

ZED
Hang on. -- And this is the good part; when you're fully ordained, 
he'll come when you call him, too. (then) Dave.

Suddenly Dave appears.  Again. (only, as we will understand later this 
is actually his first arrival).  He arrives slightly off kilter, and 
takes a brief second to "adjust."

DAVE
Sir.

ZED
Hand associate agent Cowan here what he needs to get started.  ID card, 
carte Noire, information.

DAVE
Yes.  Right.  Got it. okay, then. I'll see ya.

ZED
And don't forget to introduce yourself.

DAVE
Right.  Right.  Will do.  Bye now.

And Dave dissappears.  Cowan is left baffled.  He looks down at the 
pile of stuff Dave left a second ago: ID card (with photo), dark, 
metallic credit card-looking thing (the Carte Noire) ...

COWAN
So... wait.  You just asked... but he goes so fast, he actually brought 
what you asked for before you asked for it.

ZED
His physics are a little different than ours.  Don't worry

COWAN
It'll make sense later?

ZED
No. But You'll get used to it.  (then, extending a hand)  Welcome to 
the Men in Black.

Cowan shakes Zed's hand- Then Cowan looks down at his ID card.  It 
reads "US INS - SPECIAL SERVICES, DO NOT DETAIN THIS MAN, AGENT J"  and 
WE CUT TO:

INT.  UNDERGROUND PARKING GARAGE - SHORTLY THEREAFTER
Kay walks Jay along the row of plain-wrapped government issue vehicles.  
Kay is studying the tear-out Zed had given him.

JAY
So I read through the manual and stuff. Shit we do-- err, well, you 
guys do. One question: why are we called Men in Black?

Kay is silent, checking his key against the proper stall.

JAY (CONTINUES)
Well, how about if I guess, then? Black: Vast space.  Deep. Spiritual.  
The essence of infinity.

KAY
We wear black.

JAY
Oh. Right.  I guess that's kind of cool, too, in it's own way.  Course, 
this isn't really black; it's kind of a dull, dirty, tarry sort of 
noncolor, isn't it?

Kay leads Jay toward a powder blue 2986 Ford LTD.  The boxiest, most 
plain-looking vehicle imaginable.

KAY
The point is to not call attention to ourselves.

JAY
I understand.  Hey, it works for the Hasids, right?  No one recognizes 
them.

Jay looks at Kay, anticipating a response to his Joke. Kay's response?  
He's already in the car.  Jay nods.  Opens his door.

INT.  THE FORD LTD - CONTINUOUS
Jay slides in as Kay starts the engine, backs the car up.

JAY
So... what's this amazing new creature thing we're gonna check out?

Kay slides the heat to Jay.  It's actually a torn section of the WEEKLY 
GALAXY newspaper.  On it is a photo of a tiny INSECT.

JAY
It's a bug.

KAY
Right.

JAY
But not a BUG bug-- it's an insect.

The car moves through the garage, toward a hanging gas pump where a MAN 
in grease-stained coveralls turns as they pull up.

KAY
Fillerup, Stanley, and check under the hood while you're at it.

MAN IN COVERALLS (STANLEY)
You got it, Mr. Kay.

The man in coveralls gets to work.  As he moves away from us, we see a 
slight hint of his other-worldly origins: he is actually suspended from 
the ceiling by one of the hanging hoses.

JAY
So... lemme get this straight.  We got the use of all sorts of 
technology from all sorts of other planets.  We got information no one 
else in the world is privy to.  And we're in a 1986 Ford LTD about to 
go look at an insect?

KAY
So what's the problem?

JAY
Well, first of all... I gotta think we could still blend in pretty nice 
in a Ferrari Testerrosa.  I mean, there is a lot of `em on the street 
these days, and... uh...

Jay stops as Stanley-- instead of lifting the hood lifts the entire 
shell of the car, revealing:

Under that shell, the car is all engine, from the front bumper to the 
back.  And Jay and Kay are sitting in seats in the center of it.

KAY
Rule number one in our line of work:
nothing's ever what it seems.  Ever.

A MOMENT LATER
jay's head rocks back as Kay steps on the gas and we CUT To-


EXT.  SUDBURY COLLEGE - VIRGINIA - DAY
There's a statue of a famous Civil War hero in the center of the quad 
of this small southeastern college.  Some students are sitting on it, 
strumming guitars as Kay and Jay exit the LTD in their conservative 
attire.  Kay looks around at the idealism, the innocence.  The cut-offs 
and the colors.  Jay looks at the clothes people wear.  He sidles up to 
Kay as they pass through.

JAY
Christ, in this outfit I feel like I should be lecturing in some black 
and white film about V.D.  (waving to a group on lawn, in a "square" 
voice)  Hi kids.  "Just say no!"

Kay doesn't smile.  Jay points to a guy in go's grunge attire: tot 
jeans, tie-dyed shirt, hat backwards, goatee, earrings, etc.

JAY
I tell you, if we really wanted to bland in, that'd what we'd be 
wearing.  I think it'd be a good look for you, too.  I'll even help you 
choose a tattoo.

KAY
It's the way we do it.  The way we've always done it.

JAY
I know, but we're on a college campus...

KAY
This is a college?  I'm sorry, I thought it was a carnival.

Before them, a guy does a cartwheel and then catches a frisbee.

INT.  SUDBURY COLLEGE - SCIENCE DEPT HALLWAY
They walk down a hallway, passing an open door to a classroom, in which 
We can hear a professor teaching a freshman class.

PROFESSOR
physics explains what the world is. Hard and true. Science. 

The Professor's voice fades as they pass.  Kay just shakes his head

KAY
I was right.  It is a carnival.

They approach a door marked DR L. WEAVER, OMMOL40GY.  Kay knocks.

JAY
Boy, you gotta wonder what kind of crusty old geezer'd wanna spend his 
time around insects all day...

The doorknob turns and--

An attractive woman, (LAUREL WEAVER) opens the door in deep 
concentration.  Her manner is at once extremely scattered and 
remarkably focused, and she looks at then with the eyes of someone 
who's been working hard for a long time.

LAUREL
Can you hold on a second?  I'm just in the middle of a...

Her voice trails off as she turns away from them and returns across her 
remarkably cluttered office to her wildly paper-strewn desk.

Jay just looks at her, his mouth literally dropping open.  Kay turns to 
him, puts his finger under Jay's chin and lifts Jay's mouth shut.

KAY
For future reference, its how you're the most appealing.

laurel finishes jotting something down on a notepad, then starts t get 
up.  Then she stops, remembering something else.  She writes a few more 
things.  Grabs a book from a pile, begins... reading.

After a moment, it becomes clear that Laurel has completely forgotten 
about them.  Jay clears his throat.

JAY
Uh... Dr. Weaver?

LAUREL

Oh! Oh, God! I'm so sorry.  (turns, crosses to them) I've been just 
ensconced in my...

Kay removes from his wallet a little black credit card with the words 
'CARTE NOIRE" on it.  Instantly, we see it transform into a BUSINESS 
CARD with the words "Scientific American" on it.

KAY
We're from Scientific American.  We read about your discovery.  We'd 
like to take a look.

LAUREL
Scientific American?  Really?

He shows her the card.  She goes to take it-- but he takes it back.

KAY
Sorry-- it's my last one.

she widens the door and steps inside.  They follow her through a two-
room office which is filled with specimen jars, diagrams, maps, papers, 
books, nets, cages...

LAUREL
I wasn't expecting guests.  Lucky I just cleaned up.

The Men look around--  is this just cleaned up?  Jay passes by a 
diagram of an insect nest, looks at it closely as they continue in. 
Laurel grabs a carefully placed jar, crosses to her desk.

JAY
So, I guess you could say you're really into insects...

LAUREL
Actually, they disgust me.  But that's what I love about them.  Like a 
car wrack, you know, how you shouldn't look, but you always pull over 
and watch real close, or even pretend you're a reporter so you can get 
even closer and take pictures?

She places the jar on the desk.

LAUREL (CONTINUING) 
Or when someone has a hideous birthmark and all you do is stare.  I 
really like that.  Let the other girls have the guys like you.  
Chiseled jaw, perfect nose, quirky dimples.  I find you all so boring.

JAY
I'd prefer if you were just a little more blunt.

She opens the jar and begins to coax an INSECT out of it.

LAUREL
Come on little fella... That's another thing about insects.  Talk about 
blunt.  If a mantis wants to have sex, boom.  None of this "whattya say 
we have dinner" garbage.  Of course, afterward, she bites off his head.  
Then again, that would eliminate all that post-sex small talk... Sh, I 
don't know.

Jay is looking at her, intrigued.  Kay steps between them.

KAY
This it?

LAUREL
Yeah.  Nov I know it looks normal, but watch this.

It walks along the desk.- It looks, essentially, like a bug.

LAUREL
Okay.  Now watch.

She places a yellow post-it in the bug's path.  As it walks over it we 
see it take on a slightly yellow tone.  As it continues the post-it, it 
returns to its previous brownish, desk-colored tone.

LAUREL
I mean, I dunno.  I've seen insects with really great camoflauge 
ability.  But never like this.

KAY
May I have a look?

Laurel switches on a VIEWING PLATE.  Kay sits Looks closely.  

KAY'S POV.
it looks, essentially, like a typical insect.  Until il walks over the 
postage stamp Kay has set before it.  It takes on the reddish/blue 
color of the stamp.  He lets Jay look at it.

KAY (SOTTO)
Any thoughts?

JAY (SOTTO)
I think she's the alien.  In any case, she's clearly spent my too much 
time alone in this room.

KAY (SOTTO)
Keep her out of here while I check it out.

JAY
(stands, turns to her) I'm, uh... real curious about your met up here.  
I see you have the, uh, double-office-type thing going here..

As Jay leads her into the other room, Kay removes what looks like a 
multi-lensed jewelor's scope from his coat.  He rotates it, chooses a 
particular lens, and looks closer.

KAY'S POV: When he magnifies it 100 times, notices ... Teeth. Tiny, but 
thousands of them.  Kay pushes the magnification.

ANOTHER ANGLE - THE OFFICE

Jay has entered the OTHER ROOM.  From this room, there is a view into 
the main room, where we can see Kay studying the insect.

JAY
Hmnn... yeah.  It's cool, it's kinda like my office a little.

Laurel turns to Jay, very skeptical.

LAUREL
So... how'd you hear about this?

JAY
Oh, yeah, well, you know.  I'm a big fan.  I've read all your work.

LAUREL
Yeah, right.  Even I can barely read all my work.

Jay glances at Kay, in the other room.  Kay, speaking into his two way 
radio, motions keep stalling.

KAY (SOTTO)
... recent landings within a hundred mile radius of Sudbury, Virginia?

ZED'S VOICE (ON RADIO)
Nothing.

KAY
Nothing at all?  Now?  Last month? Anything in the last few years?

ZED'S VOICE (ON RADIO)
Nope.  Nothing at all.

BACK WITH JAY AND LAUREL
He's starting to shift uneasily . She's pressing him.

LAUREL
So... what of my stuff do you like the most?

ZAY
Well... um... a lot of the, uh... insect stuff, Mostly.

LAUREL
Parasitoid inveculates...

JAY
Right, right-- I like that stuff.

LAUREL
With exclusionary frecto-inhibitors?

JAY
Exactly.  I very much enjoy that.

LAUREL
Do have any idea what I just said?

JAY.
... Sure.  Why?

LAUREL
Then you could clue me in, cause I haven't the foggiest.  I made up 
each word.

And Laurel walks right past him and into

THE OTHER ROOM
Where Kay has now scraped the bug off the slide and is placing it a 
tiny container.

LAUREL
Who are you, really?

Kay stands, looks at her directly.  Jay, stepping up behind her, can't 
believe it when he says:

KAY
We're with the immigration and Naturalization Service, Intergalactic 
Bureau.  We monitor all-alien activity in and around Earth and its 
enveloping atmosphere.

LAUREL
(beat) Come again?

Suddenly there's a WHOOOOOSH and Dave arrives/appears.  He TAKES
INSECT from Kay's hands and places it in a jar.

DAVE
Hoy there, Jay.  Miya-- WWHOOAI You must be Dr Weaver.  Here you go!

Dave removes A DIFFERENT ZNSECT from a separate pouch and hands it to 
Laurel.

DAVE (continued)
This in an Andean Mollatoosa.  Very rare.  What the hell was it doing 
in Sudbury, Virginia?  You tell me, you're the bug-ologist.  Oh, shit, 
gotta go.

--and he's gone.  Laurel stands, stunned, as Kay says:

KAY
Dave.

And suddenly Dave arrives/appears again, for the first time.

DAVE
Sir?

KAY
We need you to take a bug back to Zed, see if he can't help me find an 
origin for this.  Oh, this is Dr. Weaver.  See that we locate a 
comparable find that's actually this earth. We'll neuralyse her,
tell her she discovered that instead.

DAVE
Yes, sir.  I'll do it, damnit, and I'll see you soon. Jay? What's up?

And he's GONE.  Even Laurells rather unusual mind has difficulty 
accepting that which she just   witnessed.

LAUREL
I really gotta stop eating that stuff from the field.

Kay reaches into his pocket.  Removes the neuralyser.  Jay moves over 
toward Laurel.

JAY
Hey, uh, listen, while you're in this kind of a weakened state, maybe, 
I dunno, maybe you'd like to go get a cup of coffee some time or 
something?

Excuse me--

LAUREL
(to Jay)
Hmnn... wall, it's funny, cause usually I'm not all that attracted to 
stupid guys, but--

KAY
But, unfortunately, you're even less attracted to guys you've never 
seen before.

JAY
What are you--?

Kay points the neuralyser in Laurells direction.  There's a FLASH.  And 
WE CUT TO:

EXT.  DEEP SPACE

The POV, RUSHING THROUGH THE GALAXY.  Passing over Pluto.  Heading 
toward what would be Neptune... it's definitely our galaxy... and WE 
CUT TO:

UNLIT NEON STARS ON A RUSTY METAL BACKDROP

--It's a sign for the STARLIGHT DINER, a roadside dive past which the 
men in Black's Ford LTD is driving.

KAY (V.0.)
What's the difference?  She still discovered something rare.  It's just 
an Andean... whatever the hell, and not a... whatever... whatever the 
hell...

INT.  LTD - SAME

Kay drives.  Jay eats a burger in a foil wrapper.

JAY
I'm just saying it was cold.  I think she kind of liked me.

KAY
She didn't even know you. .

JAY
I know, that's usually the only time I actually have a shot.  And what 
if I wanted to see her again?  I'd have to completely re-introduce 
myself.

KAY
Such a shame, too.  Cause you made such a good impression the first 
time.

JAY
Hey, I was workin' her.  I was workin' my thing.

KAY
Just so I understand... you're "thing" is... acting like an idiot?  Or 
is it actually being an idiot?  Besides--

JAY
I know, I know.  I read the manual. No attachments.  We work alone.  
Blah. blah.

KAY
If you don't have anyone to tell, you won't tell anyone.  Believe me, 
you get used to it.

JAY
I think you're too used to it.  If you ask me, you've been doing this 
job too long.

KAY
You don't know the half of it.

JAY
What'd you do before this, anyway? Wait-- let me guess. Ice sculpture? 
Rock?

KAY
I taught kindergarten.

JAY
Ha ha.  No, really.

KAY
It was a long time ago.-

Suddenly there's a WHOOOOOOSH and some car passes them going at least 
three times their speed.

KAY
Everyone thinks it's the goddamn Milky Way.

Kay hits the siren and steps on the gas.  The LTD is quickly climbing 
to a speed of 100... 120...

JAY
Well, one thing's for sure.  You could certainly lighten up.

KAY
(a serious question)
Why?

JAY
Why?  Well, it wouldn't hurt you to have a little more fun.  I know I 
don't know you all that well, but--

KAY
You don't know me at all.

JAY
Um-- Kay?

Jay grabs onto the side of the seat. 160. 200. 245.  The laws of 
physics start to press his head bara-

JAY
Kay, um... how, uh, fast does this thing actually go ... ?

KAY
Let's see... that was second gear..Kay shifts into THIRD.  Jay winces.

KAY
You just let me know when you think I'm having enough fun.

EXT.  DESERTED ROAD /INT.  PARKED POLICE CAR
2 cars ZOOOOOM by... WHOOSH-WHOOSH.  The cop car literally rises and 
clunks down.  The cops look at the speed gun: 600. He just throws the 
gun and WE CUT TO:

EXT.  FURTHER DOWN - SIDE OF DESERTED ROAD - A MOMENT LATER
The LTD is parked at the side of the road, dust kicking up around tt 
tires.  Kay gets out.  Jay follows; They head toward:

THE STATION WAGON
which is pulled to the side ahead of them.  It's loaded with suitcases 
and bags.  And inside of it is A family -- father, mother, and covered 
baby in car seat.

Kay and Jay approach the window.

KAY
Licence and registration, please.

The Man hands Jay a typical licence and registration.  Key looks at 
them.  Nods.  Hands them back.

KAY
Other licence and registration.

The Man reaches into a different pocket.  Pulls out a glowing red 
wallet and removes from it a glowing red id card.

He hands it to Kay On it is a holographic image-- the kind which, when 
you turn it, it changes into a different image.

Kay turns the ID. it goes from one image-- that of a (THE FATHER) -- to 
another image-- that of a RED-FACED ALIEN WITH SIX EYES AND FOUR EARS.  
Kay adjusts it back and forth a couple of times, then hands it back to 
the "father."

KAY
There you go Mr. K-109.

Kay notices a map on the mother's lap.  It's of the Western United 
states, with one state in particular circled.

KAY
What's in New Mexico that you're in such a hurry?

MOTHER
We're having dinner with our cousins. They're invertebrates.

KAY
See your relocation papers?

The Father hands some papers to Kay, who looks, hands then back.

KAY
These haven't been authorized.

MOTHER
Yes.  We were running late.  We're going to fax then in when we arrive.

Kay begins writing a ticket.

KAY
There's an outpost in Albuquerque.  Ernie Goosels Extra-Tall Men's Shop 
downtown-- it's always open.  Get them signed as soon as you arrive.  
They'll send it over to us.

FATHER
Yen, air.  Thank you very such.

Kay rips the ticket off his pad and hands it to the Father.

KAY
Speed limit out here's 55. 1 clocked you at just under 600.

FATHER
(signs ticket) I understand.  Thank you.

KAY
Also-- (to baby in car seat) Keep him covered.

The Mother looks behind her.  The BABY'S blanket has slipped off, 
revealing a most hideous, red-faced, six-eyed.  The Mother quickly 
covers it with the blanket, cooing and oggling as she does.

MOTHER
Here you go my beautiful little baby-waby... (to Kay) Thanks.

KAY
Drive safely.

And Kay and Jay start away as the station wagon pulls out.

KAY
Amazing what a mother'll find beautiful.

INT.  LTD
Kay gets in.  So does Jay.  Jay waits for Kay- to start the car, but he 
doesn't.  Jay looks over at him.

JAY
What?

KAY
Something seem unusual to you about that?

JAY
Uh... you mean... a family of sixeyed, red-faced space creatures 
travelling to New Mexico to have dinner with their cousins, the 
invertebrates?  Seemed pretty god damned ordinary to me.

KAY
If it was just a meal, why did they have so much luggage?

JAY
I dunno.  Maybe it was baby supplies, Kay starts the car, starts to 
pull a U-turn.

KAY
Let's check am out.

Suddenly his radio squawks and we hear Zed's voice.

ZED
Kay?  What's your 20?

KAY
Highway 119, just west of Smith. Why?

ZED
I need you in Philadelphia.  I got a code 90, in a-high school.

KAY
What the hell is going on?

Instead of a U, they do a 360 and they pull out onto the highway and 
hit the siren.

Kay accelerates.  Jay's head is pressed back against the seat.

JAY
Code 90.  I'm assuming that's... bad, right?

CUT TO: INT.  HIGH SCHOOL GYM 
-A panicked swirl of people, running, yelling.  Unable get out of the 
gym.  A pep rally gone way bad.  CUT BACK TO:

INT.  LTD - DRIVING QUICKLY
KAY
No. Code 100's bad.  With code 90 there's still a chance of survivors.

INT.  GYM 
People claw at the locked doors.  Pound.  But the screaming's getting 
less and less-- not in volume, but in numbers.

EXT.  PARKING LOT - A FEW MINUTES LATER 
The LTD lurches in and screeches to a halt.  Jay and Kay get out.

Kay tosses Jay what looks like a small rifle with a large scope and an 
extremely finely crafted barrel.

JAY
what's this?

KAY
It's an Edna named after Zed's ex wife.  All you do is at the target.  
The scope matches the image with the image on your retina. The barrel 
will find the target on its own.

Jay looks through the scope.  As he turns his eye, the barrel turns 
with it.

JAY
Wow.

Kay grabs his.  They slam the door and hear: silence.   Absolute 
stillness and quiet coming from inside the gym.

KAY
Well, Mr. Intuition... When the neighbors report screaming and we hear 
nothing but silence, what does that lead you to believe?

JAY
I guess it's simple, huh?  They're either gone... or dead.

KAY
Or someone has a nitrogenizer.

JAY
A what?

They briskly approach the locked doors.  Kay deftly pulls out his carte 
noire.  Holds it to the key hole.  Suddenly the card reforme in the 
shape of a key, and he inserts it. opens it.  Revealing:

INT.  HIGH SCHOOL GYM - CONTINUOUS
The Men enter and immediately stop in their tracks...

KAY
A nitrogenizer.

... for before them is a 400-person Motionless tableau of terror. 
That's right-- everyone who just a moment ago was running in panic, and 
screaming is now standing (or crawling up the bleachers or ly on the 
ground) absolutely still.

People frozen while running to escape look like a 3-D snapshot of the 
beginning of a track Season.  The entire football team is frozen in the 
center.  As are cheerleaders and a burly coach.  And hundreds of 
terrified students.  All motionless.

JAY
Now what?

KAY
History's proven that where there's a nitrogenizer, there's a 12-legged 
signazoid.  They use it to make our food digestible for their systems.

They move slowly around the human wax museum of terror, searching.

JAY
Right.  Well then, I guess we should look for the tell-tales signs of a 
12 legged signazoid.  Whatever those might be.  I'm assuming we don't 
have a lot of time.

KAY.
Depends on whether you consider 45 seconds a lot or a little.

JAY
Could he have gotten out?

KAY
A signazoid's eleven thousand pounds. I think we'd know if held left.

JAY
Then wouldn't we also know if he's here?

KAY
Hold it.

Suddenly they stop.  Still.  Because they can hear something. It sounds 
like whimpering.  From a corner over by the very end of the bleachers.  
A corner where they see a 15 year old boy, crouched scared.  His name 
is Leonard, and he wears a math club t-shirt.

He holds what looks like a small, red, other-worldly fireplace stoker, 
with 2 handles, a scope, a bladder and a nozzle.

JAY
it's a kid.

LEONARD
Stop!  Don't come any closer or I'll do it to you, too!

The men stop, then continue to inch close and closer.

KAY
Listen to me. You're holding something very very dangerous. You've just 
iced 350 of your pals--

LEONARD
They're not my pals--

KAY
They're not even gonna be your enemie-a if you don't give that to me 
really soon.

LEONARD
What if I don't?

KAY
In about 10 seconds they're gonna start losing brain cells at the rate 
of about a million a minute.

LEONARD
(beat) Will it lower the curve?

KAY
I don't think it's a tradeoff you really want to make.  Now give it to 
me-- I can reverse the effects if you give it to me now.

LEONARD
I wanna make a deal.

KKY
Fine.  Here's our deal: give it now or you go stag to the Pluto prom.

Kay lifts his Edna.  The barrel instantly swirls and locks right at 
Leonard's head.  He's not fooling around.

KAY
And since you're interested in math, answer this: Which is a greater 
loss-- three hundred fifty, or one?

He cocks it.  The kid, terrified, hands over the nitrogenizer.

A MOMENT LATER
people are starting to "thaw." Ever so slowly, movement can be seen.  
Kay and Jay press Leonard.

KAY
Where'd you get it?

LEONARD
Found it.

KAY
Tell us the truth.  You don't just find these things, at least not in 
this neighborhood.

LEONARD
I promised I wouldn't tell.

Kay grabs him.

KAY
You listen to me son.  I take my promises very seriously.  And we have 
a promise with some people about not letting things like this get into 
the public.  And when I find whoever let this out, I'm going to leave a 
serious trail of damage.  I'm willing to start my trail here... or 
wherever you got it.  Your choice.

There's a pause.  People are starting to gain more movement-fingers, 
some hands and arms.  Loeonard swallows hard.

LEONARD
I just wanted to scare em.  So I go in to buy a starter's pistol-- you 
know, the kind they use at track meets that shoot blanks-- and this 
guy, he said if I really wanted to mess with with them, he had just the 
thing...

KAY
This guy.  Where was he?

LEONARD'
I dunno.  Some pawn shop.  Downtown.

KAY
(stands) Son of a bitch.

INT.  CAR - DRIVING THROUGH DOWWTOWN - NIGHT
Kay drives.  Furious.

KAY
There's a treaty.  There's a reason for it: nothing must leak into the 
public.  Nothing.  Rule 4. Why would he go and knowingly break the 
treaty?

Kay pulls the car to the side of the road.

EXT.  DOWNTOWN PHILADELPHIA - VERY BAD PART OF TOWN NIGHT 
Jay follows Kay out.

JAY
He? Who's he?

KAY
He's a slimy little slithering scumwad is what he is.

JAY
There's gotta be a hundred pawn shops in downtown Philadelphia.  I take 
it there's a reason we're going to this one.

KAY
There's a god damn good reason.

JUST A WAYS DOWN THE STREET
A really scummy guy (JACK JEEBS)-- bad skin, straggly hair, a limp-- is 
turning the "OPEN" sign in his pawn shop to "CLOSED" as Kay and Jay 
arrive at the door.  Jeebs looks up and scowls.

JEEBS
Shit.  Flatfoots.  I'm closed!

KAY
Open up, Jeebs.

Jeebs tries to force the door shut but Kay easily pushes it open. They 
follow Jeebs into--

INT.  PAWN SHOP - CONTINUOUS
A typical pawn shop-- stocked only with items we recognize as of this 
planet.  Kay pushes Jeebs all-the way up to the counter.

JEERS
Hey!  Kay! It's funny, I was just thinking about you.

KAY
What a coincidence, cause I was just thinking about you, too, Jack.  
(pulls out Nitrogenizer)
Recognize this?

JEEBS
No.

KAY
Maybe you need a closer look.

Kay whacks Jeebs across the face with it.  Jeebs flies back through the 
counter.  Jay winces as Jeeb's head slams against the wood.

JEEBS
Hey!  What the hell are you doing?

Kay grabs him and slugs him again-- and knocks Jeebs through a back 
door and into:

A BACK ROOM - CONTINUOUS
Where Jeebs rolls with a thud onto the ground.  Kay and Jay follow him. 
The room, unlike the front room, is filled with artifacts and items 
from all over the galaxy.  An intergalactic pawn shop.

KAY
What the hell are you doing?  Selling to a resident.  To a kid, no 
less.

JEEBS
I didn't do it, Kay, I swear! 

Kay raises his fist again.  Jeebs scrambles backward.

JEEBS -
I won't do it again! I promise!

Kay grabs him, drags him to his feet.

JEEBS
The kid looked desperate.  I figured...

KAY
You figured what?

JEEBS
I figured it didn't matter.  It's my last day of business. (quickly-- 
as Kay's about to punch him again)  I was wrong.  I'm sorry.  Hey, look 
what I got for you-- a free-floating plasma pad? --One of the good 
ones, too, with zoids.

Jeebs grabs what looks like small BLOW DRYER from a shelf.  He presses 
a button, and from the spout come dozens of cotton ball-like puffs, 
..all of which stick to Jeebs and vibrate. clearly this gives jeebs 
tremendous pleasure.

JEEBS
Mmmmmm-hmnn.  Fact, I can get one for your friend, too.  Wanna try it? 
wait, hang on, just gimme one more minute... ooooh, yeah.  God-

Kay pulls it away from him, tosses it to Jay. Jay gets some of the 
puffs on him. 

KAY
Your licence is revoked. Permanently.

JEEBS
I understand.  I understand, thank you. --How about a transmographic  
dexahydrochlorophallomixaloosalyser?

He tosses it to Jay.  It looks like a yo-yo, but it works UP.  Jay 
fiddles with it.

KAY
And I'm arranging deportation papers.

JEEBS
Yes.  Yes, that's eminently fair of you.

KAY
And I'm bringing you in and locking you up until you tell me--

JEEES
No!!  No-- here-- how about a metrological de-memorizer? or an 
Andromedan Electrostatic
Jismalografier?

KAY
Sorry, pal.  You know the rules.

Kay pulls out handcuffs.  Jeebs suddenly starts CRYING.

JEEBS
No. Don't take me in.  Please.

Jeebs starts to back up.  Jay, trying to help, grabs Jeebs.

JAY
Hold it, JeeeeEEEEEEAAH--


Suddenly Jeebs latches on Jay and shoots up into the air as they both 
blast through the shattering roof and are suddenly--

HOVERING ABOVE THE CITY OF PHILADELPHIA - NIGHT
About 15 feet over the rooftop of Jeebs' pawn shop, where Jeebs, ears 
extend into Mary Poppins-like umbrella-wings.  His hands and feet 
retreat into claws.  And Jay suddenly finds himself holding onto Jeebs 
for dear life. Jeebs Rounds Jay.

JEEBS
Let go of me.

But Jay tries to hold onto Jeebs' pants-- which rip.  Flailing, Jay 
grabs Jeebs' leg... and the SKIN rips... revealing...

A grimy, slimy, literally SLIPPERY under-leg...

And, clutching the shed skin like it were a limp plastic bag... Jay 
suddenly finds himself falling back through the hole in the roof...

JAY
Shiiiiiiiiii.....

AND INTO-- THE PAWN SHOP    CONTINUOUS
Where he lands with a dull, hard GRUNT on the concrete floor.

JAY
iiiiiiiit.

Painfully, Jay looks up.  Kay stands above him, holding his Edna 
trained on Jeebs, who, Mary-Poppins-like, floats back down into the 
room, now the slimy, big-eared, salalmander-skinned alien that he is

KAY
Let's go, Jeebs.  Downtown.

JEEBS
You're not taking me in!

Suddenly Jeebs reaches his arm down his own throat and, when it's about 
three feet down there, he pulls himself inside out by the spine.  Of 
course, he's not a human, so what's left is an odd, alie mess of bones 
and skin and orange blood...

Jay watches, stunned, as Jeebs' I lifeless form just falls ontc the 
cold floor next to him.

KAY
Something's wrong here.

JAY
(looking at all the gunk)  Gee.  You really think?

KAY
Jeebs is eager to have me deport him. But would rather kill himself 
than go downtown. Why?

JAY
I dunno. Why did that family need all their luggage for a dinner?.

KAY
Why did Mikey leave Nazca?

JAY
(noticing something)
And what's this ... ?

KAY
What?

Jay's noticed something sticking out of the pocket of Jeebs' jacket. 
which is all entwined with his other-worldly viscera.  He reaches into 
the mess to pick it up.  He wipes it off.

JAY
Looks like a train ticket.

KAY
Where to?

There's a pause.  Jay looks at Key.

JAY
New Mexico.

EXT.  DEEP SPACE
The POV is RUSHING THROUGH OUR GALhXY... past NEPTUNE.  Approaches... 
CUT TO:

INT.  INS OFFICE - SPECIAL SERVICES BUREAU
CLOSE ON ZED
As his eyes widen...

ZED
Holy shit...

REVERSE ANGLE - HIS POV
He is looking at his location indicator screen-- where there is a 
definite covergence of lights.  All are blinking and heading toward New 
Mexico...

ZED
(calling) 4-Eyes? (beat) 4-Eyes?

He turns.  No one is in her seat. Zed grabs his radio.  CUT TO:

CUT TO: EXT.  DESERT - NIGHT
The LTD zooms into the New Mexico night.

INTERCUT INT. CAR AND INT. OFFICE
KAY
4-Eyes went AWOL?  What about Dave?

ZED
He's gone, too.

KAY
What about the other agents?  Ella?
Tee?

ZED
Elle's up in Portland-- three of her charges left visibly at a 
Trailblazers game.  Shots got a lot to mop up.  Tee says his Shanghai 
quadrasectionals haven't been around since morning.

Zed refers to a shattered glass jar in a room labelled "quarantine".

ZED
Even that little bug you found in Sudbury seems to have taken off.

KAY
Jesus, everyone's moving.  Could be an assembly.  Does it look 
aggressive?

ZED
Hard to tell.  I hope not.

KAY
Keep an eye on things there.  We'll see what we can find out at Ernie 
Goosels.

Kay starts to pull the car off the highway and WE CUT TO:

EXT.  ALBUQUERQUE, NEW MEXICO               --NIGHT
A BEARDED MAN carrying a sandwich card which reads "THE END IS NEAR" 
babbles incessantly-- a complete raving lunatic.

BEARDED MAN
... and a man with five heads... and long, skinny goat, only it wasn't 
a goat, it was a fish-goat, with wheels.  WHERE YOU GOING, ROLLING 
FISH-GOAT?  "The end is near,' he tells me... THE END IS REARI

NEARBY
Jay and Kay move through the crowded sidewalk... past the vagrants, 
drifters, lunatics, bums... and reach "EMIE GOOSE'S EXTRA-TALL MEN' 
STORE"... and find it closed.

KAY
Ernie's never gone.

JAY
Could he be sleeping?

KAY.
He sleeps five minutes every four hundred years.

The men pound on the door.  But there's definitely no one inside.

JAY
What's going on, Kay?

KAY
I don't want to rattle you, but Dee was here for the War of the Worlds.

JAY
The radio show?

KAY
No. The aliens organized, all of them, and tried a coup. They made it 
seem like a radio show afterwards.

JAY
You think that's what's-happening?

KAY
I think that's what's happening...

They look around.  Vagrants.  Drifters.  That LUNATIC.

BEARDED MAN
"AND THE DONKEY- TOLD ME THE END IS NEAR"

People cross the street away from him.  Everyone avoids this guy. 
Everyone, that is, except Jay and Kay... who walk right up to

KAY
What are you talking about?

LUNATIC
They were in wheelbarrows.  And shopping carts.  I saw a family of em 
in a station wagon.

JAY
A family in a station wagon?  Red-faced?  Six eyes and four ears'

The Bearded Man looks at Jay-- and could practically KISS him.

BEARDED MAN
You saw then too!  I'm not insane!

KAY
Where?

BEARDED MAN
The high place!  THEY'RE UP IN THE HIGH PLACE!

He POINTS.  They see a mountain, way in the distance...  CUT TO:

EXT.  ROAD OUT OF ALBUQUERQUE/INT.  LTD - INTERCUT
The Men in Black are roaring through the New Mexico desert, heading up 
a hill... toward a distant plateau...

KAY
The Plains of St. Augustine... the highest point on-the continental 
shelf...

JAY
Kay, I think I see something...

THEIR POV - UP ON A HIGH DESERT PLATEAU

Way in the distance can be seen all sorts of LIGHTS-- some flickering, 
others more static.  Like some sort of GATHERING.


EXT.  DESERT FLOOR/INT.  LTD - CONTINUOUS
The roars through the dirt.  As they get closer, the far-away fort 
begin to take shape.  There's an aerie feel.

JAY
Holy shit... what the hell is this?

THEIR POV: EXT.  PLAINS OF ST.  AUGUSTINE - NEW MEXICO - NIGHT
Spread across the vast desert floor are all sorts of silhouetted 
figures huddled in the darkness... with campfires... near trailers.  
Hundreds of them, illuminated by the car's headlights.

It looks like people waiting for the Rapture or something.  Only the 
sihouettes aren't humans, they're aliens.

INT. EXT. LTD - ON THE HIGH DESERT PLATEAU - CONTINUOUS
The first thing which comes into View in that station wagon with 
suitcases -- the one they pulled over on the highway.  The Family sits 
the hood of the parked wagon, huddled together, waving at Jay and Kay 
as they pass.

FATHER
Hello, officer.

The Mother holds her little baby-- the hideous red-faced thing...

MOTHER
Look, sweetie, it's the nice man from the police car.

JAY
That's the family we pulled over earlier.  They didn't react to us at 
all.  They just waved.

Kay pulls the car to a stop and

EXT.  DESERT - CONTINUOUS

-- they get out of their car in the warm night air and look around. 
There is a very mysterious feel-- almost like Ellis Island.  We see a 
ROLLING FISH-GOAT, and CYNTHIA (the waitress from Georgetown), a 10-
foot tall KM with a huge nose and huge lips...

KAY
(recognizing creatures) Ernie Goose?  Cynthia?

JAY
That's the Loch Ness Monster.  And... Kay-- that's... 444-Eyes?

In the distance is 444-Eyes, milling about with other aliens.  Along 
with several others we may recognize from the office...

KAY
Dave? Where you going?

Dave ooks at him.  Calls from across the dark, eerie plain...

DAVE
My family-- I need to go back.

KAY
Why?  Dave?

SuddenlIy the aliens become still and the ground begins to stir.

JAY
Jesus...

KAY
Get back in the car!

The ground begins to shake violently as Kay pulls Jay back toward--

The Shaking LTD

Where Kay starts the engine and steps on the gas.  Illuminated in the 
headlights as the LTD accelerates are hundreds of aliens-diving out of 
the way of the now-speeding car.

JAY
Jesus Christ...

KAY
We're rising.

They are-- the HORIZON SEEMS To BE LIFTING into the air.

EXT.  DESERT - NIGHT - SAME - WIDE SHOT
Sure enough, a football field size piece of desert is rising into the 
air, revealing it to be not dirt but a manta-ray-shaped organic craft-- 
flat and wide and black, with a long tail.  And, in the last days of 
Saigon... it lifts all the aliens up.  All except--

--Jay and Kay, in the LTD, which as the huge bat-ray-shaped 
creature/craft goes into warp speed and disappears into the night sky, 
and--

-- the car soars down to the dark deserted desert floor, where land 
with a loud, heavy thud and go skidding madly to a halt.

Jay looks at Kay.  Kay looks at Jay.  And WE CUT TO:

EXT.  DEEP SPACE
The POV.  RUSHING PAST SATURN.  HEADING TOWARD JUPITER- We ran now 
begin to,-see in the distance the small blue planet we know is Earth... 
and WE CUT TO:

SEVERAL SHOTS - VARIOUS ALIEN ESTABLISHMENTS 
Ernie Goosels.  Cynthials coffee house.  Empty.  Deserted.

INT.  INS BUILDING - RECEPTION
Jay and Kay come wearily through.

INT.  SPECIAL SERVICES WING
They enter the outer office.  Bound through the "EXIT" door (the wall, 
actually) into --

THE BACK ROOM 40 To find it absolutely quiet and still. What was a 
buzzing, thriving workplace is now completely devoid of its alien 
staff.  The HUKAN ASSISTANTS slouch, inert and quiet, as:

AT THE FAR END OF THE BIG, WIDE ROOM is Zed, slumped in a chair, 
totally dejected, covered in notes, scraps of paper, pieces of 
information, completely overwhelmed.  He sits next to Dee.  They look 
like two old man on a park bench.

ZED
They're gone.

KAY
Dee?  What are you doing here?

A MOMENT LATER - AT 444-EYES' VIDEO COMPLEX
Kay pushes keys. ON THE (SINGLE-IMAGE) SCREEN, the places where before 
we saw ALIENS (when Jay first came in) are all DESERTED.

DEE
I know their kids, I've played poker with `em.  And they're all gone.

JAY
I'm just wondering what's so great out there that everyone's trying to 
get to it?

ZED
Or what's no horrible down here that everyone's trying to avoid It?

JAY
Why does it feel like the only thing scarier than having a bunch of 
aliens on the planet... is having then leave the planet?

There is a pause. The whole room is silent. And then, suddenly... from 
way, way off... a tiny "BEEP" is heard.

The 3-d holographic diagram of the universe is completely dark.  No 
little red dots at all. But somewhere, something is still BEEPING.  Jay 
turns.  Points.

JAY
Uh, guys...

FAR ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE ROOM, deep in a corner, up near the 
ceiling... is a tiny RED LIGHT.  And it's moving quickly.  Toward:

THE HOLOGRAM OF THE UNIVERSE
Where Kay and Jay and Zed are now standing.

ZED
Where's it headed?  Get a line on it!

KAY
I'm getting a trajectory...

ZED
What do we have?  Are we showing anything?

Zed rushes to a little pad.  Presses some buttons.

KAY
Where's it coming?  Where's he landing?

JAY (OFF SCREEN)
The Pentagon.

Zed and Kay turn their heads.

ZED/KAY
What?/Where?

KAY
How do you know that?

JAY
It's on TV.

Sure enough, ON THE NEWS is a REPORTER, looking quite shocked himself.

BERNIE SHAW (OR CNN) There are rumors - I repeat, rumors only-- that 
the Pentagon has been contected about a possible alien landing...  
(shakes head, looks off)  You guys aren't ser...

WIDER  
KAY, JAY AND ZED Are shocked.

ZED
It's on TV! They contacted the Pentagon?

Kay looks at a computer screen.

KAY
They contacted everybody.

On a computer screen is a list of names and figures.  It says
"CONTACTED: US AF.  US ARMY.  PENTAGON.  SECRET SERVICE.  ETC..."
Names keep scrolling past.

ZED
They're calling it a peaceful arrival.  They guarantee they're coming 
unarmed.

KAY
And they're buying it?

ZED
They went right to the President.

KAY
They went to the President? Directly? THEY WENT OVER OUR HEADS?

The men look at each other.  And WE CUT TO:

EXT.  DEEP SPACE
The POV now RUSHES PAST JUPITER... AND MARS... and is starting to head 
directly toward the Earth... and WE CUT TO:

EXT.  PENTAGON - EARLY MORNING
Already cordoned off for security, the pentagon is now surrounded with 
MILITARY.  They not only surround the building, they are on tl roof as 
well, positioned to avoid any and all possible threat.

NEAR THE OUTER PERIMETER
Some military men come to the window of the Men in Black LTD.  Kay 
shows his ID.  They lot them pass.

EXT.  INTERIOR OF THE PENTAGON - A MOMENT LATER
Around the place are thousands of military men with rifles.  People are 
looking at locks, preparing themselves.

Jay and Kay step up.  Jay looks at his watch.

JAY
58... 59... It's 5:45.

All around them, people are aware that it's the time.  We hear voices 
calling Out.  Guns click in.  NASA scientists aim cameras.

But there's nothing.  No activity at all.  All eyes-- at least two 
thousand pairs of them-- are focused on the sky.

JAY
Kay-- check that out.

Jay points to the ground - just below them.
A tiny green sprout can be seen starting to poke its way out or the 
cement.  Suddenly three more sprouts poke out of the ground. Then 
fifteen more.  Then a thousand.  After a moment we hear:

DISTANT SOLDIERIS VOICE
General!

Some eyes turn.  A distant soldier has spotted the same thing.  
Gradually eyes start to shift from the sky to the ground as--

ALL AROUND THE CENTER QUAD-OF THE PENTAGON
Sprouts are popping throulh ... and they don't stay tiny for too long.  
Already some of them are two or three feet high.

Voices start to call out, people are confused, fascinated.

The sprouts grow higher. Confused soldiers don't know what to do with 
their guns.  Suddenly water starts to trickle from a spot in the 
ground.  And more sprouts grow around it.

The original sprouts are now ten feet high. And growing.  A flower 
blooms. More flowers.  It becomes impossible to see across the cement, 
because the trees are now too high. People start to laugh To cheer.

But Kay and Jay remain stoic.

They look around some more.  There's tremendous excitement brewing 
Trees are now thirty, forty feet high.  And still growing. Some of the 
soldiers begin to move off the periphery and, led by their leaders, 
begin walking through the now-dense groan woods.

Jay looks at Kay. They start in as well.

IN THE MIDDLE OF THE WOODS
People are moving over streams and rocks and lush, lavish natural 
floral gardens until they reach, in the middle of it all--

A GORGEOUS SUN-LIT MEADOW
In the center of which is a crystaline glass space ship: sleek and 
simple, with glass wings, glass controls, a glass engine under a glass 
hood... just sitting there, reflecting in the sun.

And before the ship, on a hammock, sipping water from the stream which 
trickles by beside him... is:

AN EXTREMELY HANDSOME, VERY DISTINGUISHED LOOKING MAN
Who smiles at the hundreds of curious men and women who begin to poke 
their way through the trees into the clearing.

He acknowledges then all with a pleasant nod.  As they get closer, he 
raises his water glass, and says, with all the irony of a man who knows 
exactly how the following sounds:

MAN
I guess what I'd really like to ask you people is... please... (smiles) 
Take me to your leader.

And WE CUT TO:
VARIOUS SHOTS - AROUND THE GlOBE
On Tv's all over the world -- in homes, in stores, in bars-- the media 
jump on the rumors of extraterrestrial contact. We CUT between 
REPORTERS ON VARIOUS CHANNELS OF TV as it begins to build.

REPORTER 07
Though no one will confirm it, the amazing thing is that no one is 
actually denying that the  gathering in Washington DC around the 
Pentagon could actually be--

REPORTER #15
--not since the infamous "Roswell" incident of 1947-- 

REPORTER #4 -
- rumors range from a failed terrorist attack to a visitation-get this! 
- from a being from outerspace--

All over the world, people gather and watch.  Some are enthralled.  
Others are disbelieving.  All are-at least intrigued.  

CUT TO:
EXT.  THE PENTAGON - DAY
Where extremely tight security fights off the insistent throng of 
press, who badger and swarm around those they recognize...

REPORTER #2
General!  We understand that inside the Pentagon are twenty-five green 
men with antennae--

GENERAL
(passing through)
No comment.

REPORTER 414
A huge, twelve foot  robot--

SPOKESPERSON FOR PRESIDENT (as he muscles through)
I have nothing to say.

      REPORTER #33
-- figures not dissimilar to ET, the Extraterrestrial--

UP AT THE DOOR

THE MOST IMPORTANT PEOPLE IN THE COUNTRY are inserting ID CARDS into a 
security slot by a guarded door.

Kay and Jay-- who pass the press unnoticed (since nobody recognizes 
them)-- insert their Carte Noires.  The light goes GREEN.  They enter.  
And as one last clueless reporter speaks to a camera--

CLLTELESS REPORTER #16
-- where reporter happened to glimpse what I think was a sevenheaded 
monkey-like creature--

-- WE CUT TO:
CLOSE SHOT: THE VERY HUMANESQUE ALIEN

Looking prim and handsome and dapper. we are in:
INT.  A HIGHLY SECURE CONFERENCE ROOM IN THE PENTAGON
Where around a big table are the Joint Chiefs, the Security Advisors, 
heads of the CIA, NASA, Secret Service, etc. And Jay and Kay. The head 
of NASA addresses the President.  By him is the Alien, dapper and 
confident. Whereas there is quite a frenz-outside, inside it is calm 
and reasoned.

NASA HEAD
He has come unarmed-- we have verified this-- and he has come alone. We 
may politicize it, to suit our current needs, or we may not.  All he 
wants is 5 minutes to address the people of our world, with what he 
calls a message of hope and light.  So, Mr. President, if it's alright 
with you, I'd like to introduce...   (to the Alien)  What would you 
like us to call you, anyhow?

The Alien stands.  He moves to the head of the table.

ALIEN
Let's see... My true name you couldn't even begin to pronounce.  Trust 
me, it's worse than Prince's new name.  Why don't you simply call me, 
oh, I don't know... what's a good human name?  How about... Yaz.

NASA HEAD
'Yaz'?

YAZ
1967 Triple Crown winner, American League MVP, Boston Red Sox left 
fielder, Carl Yastrzemski.  Just saw the final pennant game before I 
left.  You must understand, it takes your TV signals a while to get to 
us. --Oh, I'm taping the 67 world series as we speak.  Please, nobody 
tell me how it comes out.

Yaz smiles.  Light chuckles from all but Kay, who checks his watch.

YAZ
Anyhow, I digress... I'd now like to ask everyone, please, if you 
would, to empty your front pockets.  Don't worry. This isn't a stick 
up. I'm just making a point.

People reach into their pockets.  CLANG-CLANK K-CHING CLUNK. Change, 
pocket knives... and, mostly, keys are met on the table. Jay goes to do 
the same, but, off Kay's look, he stops.

YAZ
Now, what are we looking at?  Keys.  Look at them all.  Why do we have 
them?  Mr. President?

PRESIDENT
Well, uh... so we can got into things, I guess.

YAZ
That's why you have doors, Mr. President.  Keys, however, are to lock 
the doors.  And locks, as you know, are to keep people out.  Why?  
Fear.  You humans are afraid.  So you set up boundaries.  Borders.  
Your car.  Your home.  Your country.  All the while your true enemy 
could very well be considered already here among you.  Well I am here 
to let that enemy go.  Because there's a border you didn't even know 
existed.  It's the border to the Universe.  And unlike your other 
borders, you humans didn't set this border up to keep other planets 
from you.  It was set up by others, to keep you away from them.  Until 
now.  Because I have been sent here to open the door.  To present you, 
so to speak, with the key to the universe.

People are speechless.  Astounded.  Awestruck.  Jay watches, 
interested.  Kay rolls his eyes.

YAZ (CONTINUING)
Why, you might ask?  Because you're ready.  Because you've finally gone 
as far as you can go without it.

PRESIDENT
If I may, sir... what exactly are you offering?

YAZ
A good question.  And a simple answer.  No more hunger.  No more smog.  
No more overpopulation.  No more war.

PRESIDENT
And I assume you're bringing this to us because we're the most powerful 
country on the planet...

YAZ
That and, well... I want my friends to see me on CNN.   (off chuckles)  
Okay, I will admit it: ours is an illegal hookup.  We'll gladly pay 
when you can get your trucks out to install it.

There's still more laughter.  Not from Kay, of course, who clears his 
throat and stands.  Heads turn.

KAY
Pardon me.  I hate to break up this lovely little group hug, but we 
people aren't ready for what we have.  How is this going to help?

YAZ
How could it not?

KAY
Why don't you ask the Mosebacke?    (off murmers of confusion)   
Brazil. Until 44 years ago they ate with their hands, lived in huts, 
and didn't even know the rest of the world existed. 44 years ago a well 
intentioned missionary gave them a fork.  Today, they don't exist.

YAZ
Come on now.  People are smart.

KAY
No-- a Person is smart.  People are dumb.  (as the group starts to 
murmer protests)  And the more people you put together, the dumber they 
get.  And you know that.

Kay sits.  Around them, people are very uneasy.  They apologize to Yaz, 
try to offer him signs of support.

PRESIDENT
(trying to quell things) Excuse me--

JAY (stands)
Excuse me.  Um, sorry to interrupt you, Mr. President-- and, by the 
way, it's an honor, air-- but... Mr. Yaz.  If there's nothing to be 
afraid of, why did all the other aliens leave?

INT.  PENTAGON HALLWAY - A MOMMENT  LATER - DAY

Jay and Kay are "ushered" away from the meeting by security guards.

KAY
"Perhaps we shoulld take a lesson from our dinosaurs..."

JAY
I dunno, man.  Maybe we should.

Kay looks daggers at him, then they are forced out of the building--

EXT.  BUILDING - CONTINUOUS
Where they are mobbed by the reporters.

KAY (to Jay)
What the hell are you talking about?

VARIOUS REPORTERS
Can you confirm-rumors--?  Excuse me! Is there an alien in our--?  Etc.

KAY
We don't know anything.

JAY  (to Kay)
I mean... things are different.  I'm not saying it's your fault.  But 
they're different now.  He made it that way.

REPORTER
But you were just-.in--

KAY
We don't know!

They push through the throng, and WE CUT TO:

INT.  INS BUILDING - HALLWAY LEADING FROM MAIN LOBBY MOVING,
We're in the "regular" part of the INS building-- the part that houses 
the regular INS staff.  Jay and Kay swiftly stride down-the hallway 
with Zed, heading toward their section of the building.

As they go, they pass office after office, where everyone is watching 
TV or listening to the radio or talking about the big news

ZED
As far as I can tell, the guy's what he says he is - alone, and 
unarmed.  All he wants is five minutes to introduce himself to the 
public.

KAY
Where's he making his big speech?

ZED
They haven't announced it yet.  All I know is we're in motion for the 
most watched media event in history.

They pass an office where excited Agents and Secretaries and Workers -
single as they never do, all watching BERNIE SHAW on CNN.

BERNIE SHAW (ON CNN) 
Well, it's been officially confirmed... I mean-- it really has... wow.  
Forgive me, but it's true: we've had... contact.  With an intelligent 
life form from another planet...

JAY
CNN... Maybe his dream'll come true.

ZED
Yeah.  His dream and our worst nightmare.

JAY
You know, there's something we never really thought of...

They enter--
INT.  INS BUILDING - SPECIAL SERVICES OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

The Men in Black office is empty.  That is, there are no aliens to 
speak of.  Kay moves to his cubicle. Jay and Zed follow behind him

KAY
Oh, yeah?  Fill us in, why don't you.

JAY
What if he's telling the truth?

KAY
You know something?  I actually never think of that.  I gotta get some 
coffee.

DEE (OFF SCREEN)
I'll get it for you, Kay.

They turn.  Due a standing in the doorway.

DEE
'Hell, I may as well do something useful.

KAY
Dee, you've been useful for 50 years.  We're clueless, you're tired.  
Why don't you go home and get some rest.

DEE
Home?  You gotta be kidding me.  (then)  Black?

Kay hesitates. 	Then nods.  Dee looks at Jay and Zed.

JAY
Sure.

ZED
Me, too.  I feel a long day coming on.

KAY
Let's hope so.  Cause I feel a short day coming on, and it scares the 
hell out of me.

Dee crosses into:

THE BACK ROOM

Where he walks past the QUARANTINE ROOM, where there's a large hole in 
the glass where the "insect" Laurel had found had been kept.  We hold 
on it for a beat before cutting over TO:

THE "WATERING HOLE"
Where Dee sets the first cup down and starts to pour the second.  As he 
does something drips into the already-poured first cup.

He pauses.  Looks up.  Sees nothing unusual.  Then returns to pouring 
the second cup.  He sets it down.  

NOT NOTICING THAT: 
The ceiling above him is shifting, slightly.

OUT IN THE CUBICLE AREA
Kay punches in at his computer, desperate, looking for anything.  Jay 
has not dropped what he was just referring to.

JAY
Kay--

KAY
Hang on.  There's gotta be something on this guy.  (to Zed)  Did you 
contact the Alliance?  Do
they have anything?

ZED
I put word out-- you know how long it takes to get the signals across.

JAY
Kay.  Seriously.  What if he actually means what he says?

KAY
He's here to help!?

JAY
Yes.  Well, in his own mind, yeah.  What if, from his point of view, he 
is?

KAY
How does that help me?

JAY
Well... if you think about it, then it would mean that maybe everything 
he's saying is true.

Kay abandons his computer, whirls in his chair.

KAY
Great.  Fine.  Listen, why don't we call the pentagon, maybe they'll 
take you back with the new age well wishers.  I'll stay here and go 
extinct with the dinosaurs.

JAY
Kay.  All I'm saying--

KAY
I know what you're saying.  And I'm telling you I don't trust him--

JAY
I know you don't trust him.  You don't trust anybody--

KAY
Cause I've been doing this thirty years and if I don't know when 
something doesn't feel right by now--

JAY
That's my point.  For thirty years you've been looking through things 
and under things and behind things. Well what I'm saying is maybe this 
is a time where you should look right at things.  He said our enemy in 
already here.  Well maybe it is.  Maybe our enemy is, literally, 
already here.

There's a pause.

Suddenly a thought passes through Kay's mind. And he's really serious. 
He looks at Jay. Looks like he's going to kill him. Kay starts moving 
toward him.  Jay starts to back up.

JAY
What?  Kay, come on, man--

IN THE BACK ROOM 

Dee pours the third cup of coffee when --

There's another drip.  He looks up.  Sees nothing. Looks back at the 
coffee. Something viscous and green is floating in one of the cups. He 
starts to get nervous.

BACK IN THE CUBICLE AREA - SAME
Kay continues to move toward Jay... and Jay continues to back toward 
the center of the room.

JAY
Look, I don't blame you-- you've been working hard-- but-- seriously, 
man-- Kay!--

But just when it looks like Kay is right on top of Jay, Kay continues 
right on past him. Jay whirls.

JAY
What are you doing?

KAY
Everything left the planet, right? Except one thing.  (to Zed)  That 
little insect-- the one we found in Sudbury.  Did it leave when 
everything else left?

ZED
Well, it wasn't in the jar...

KAY
Did it leave?

ZED
Actually, I don't know...

KAY
Oh shit!

And Kay accelerates into a full run toward:
THE BACK ROOM - BACK IN THE WATERING HOLE

Where Dee grabs the three cups of steaming black coffee when something 
drips again-- this time landing in a big splotch right in front of him.  
And he looks up. And this time he sees the ceiling shift-- cause it's 
shifting a lot.

And suddenly a figure begins to emerge from within it-- like those 3-D 
prints that take a while for your eyes to find the image...

And then teeth begin to emerge from the figure...

DEE
Oh my Lord...

And a CREATURE begins to emerge around the teeth (imagine a huge insect 
which still retains the pattern of the wallpaper against which it was 
perched) and, as--

KAY bursts into the room--

KAY
Dee!  Dee, get out of there! It's too late, because--

IN THE BACK ROOM
The creature leaps off and lunges toward Dee, who turns and trips, 
spewing the piping hot coffee on the, floor in front of him.

Kay quickly pulls his gun as--

The creature attacks, quickly and horrifically devouring Dee's entire 
lower torso.  Dee cries out in pain as--

DEE
AHHHH!

Kay fires but misses because-- in less than two seconds--
The creature has quickly mutated into two identical creatures. That's 
right-- where there was one, there's now two.

Jay and Zed rush in and recoil in horror as--

Kay fires again and-- BLAM BLAM The two hideous bugs fall splatting 
against the back wall: dead.

Then he and Jay and Zed rush to Dee, whose consciousness is draining 
with his blood.

KAY
Dee.  God damn it.  I told you to go home.

DEE
Kay...

And Dee's eyes glaze over... Kay looks up.

KAY
Sorry, old buddy.

And WE CUT TO:

INT.  LAUREL WEAVERIS OFFICE - DAY
A small tv is playing in the corner of Laurells office, with the 
incessant alien coverage blabbering on low volume.

BERNIE SHAW (ON CNN)
... President has assured us that the alien is friendly and will be 
speaking to us at,a time and place as yet to be announced...

This small bug-- the Andean Mollatoosa which Dave had given her-sits on 
the desk as she works fervently at her desk.  She pays absolutely no 
attention to the TV.

Suddenly there's a knock and before laurel can even respond--

THE DOOR
flies open and Kay and Jay burst in.  Laurel whirls in her chair--

LAUREL
Hang on-- ARHH!

JAY
(with a hope for recognition) Hi...

But she just looks through them, with those hazy, work-filled eyes.

KAY
We need to talk to you about the alien.

LAUREL
The what?

JAY
The alien?  You haven't heard?  (a slight smile)  Kay, she hasn't 
heard. (to Laurel) It's on the TV.  Right next to you.

Laurel, still dazed from working and a bit stunned from the intrusion, 
turns her head and gazes at the small screen on her desk.

LAUREL
That's Bernie Shaw.  What are you saying?  Who are you people?

Then Bernie says:

BERNIIE SHAW
... nobody knows just what planet or galaxy the alien comes from but...

And Laurel turns back to the Men in Black.  Then she looks at her 
Andean Mollatoosa.  Shakes her head.  Picks up the bug.

LAUREL
Once-- just once-- I thought I'd made the discovery of a lifetime...

JAY
Actually, you may have.

KAY
We need you to show us where you found it.

EXT.  FIELD IN THE WOODS - DAY
They trudge along an unused path through overgrown weeds and brush.

LAUREL
It's hard to find.  It's an old civil war cemetery.  Nobody ever goes 
there.  So... what is it you say you do?

JAY
I guess you could say we're entopologists of a sort.

LAUREL
I don't think so. (to Kay)  I mean, him, he could be a scientist, 
maybe.  But you... (to Jay)
Exterminator, I'd understand.  But entopolgist?  No way.

JAY
Why not?

LAUREL
Well, first of all, it's entomologist.

Kay pulls out a METER of sorts.  Gets a reading on it.

KAY
I show nothing on the infra-red.  No sign of life...

They approach an old wire fence.  It's covered in weeds.  There's ar 
old sign indicating a cemetary. it's kind of creepy.  They keep going.  
Kay holds the meter out.  Still no reading.

KAY
Which way?

LAUREL
Seriously.  I'm not going any further until you tell who you are.

Exasperated, Kay sighs, turns to Laurel.  Pulls out his neuralyser.

KAY
We're an ultra-elite, top secret organization which monitors alien 
activity on the planet earth.

LAUREL  (beat)
No kidding.  Really?  (to Jay)  Him, too?  (off Jay's nod)  There's not 
some... I don't know... level you have to be above, or anything?  
(then)  The cemetary's up there, by the way.  (to neuralyser)
And, if you don't mind, could you put that thing away?  It gives me the 
creeps.

They look up the incline: about 50 yards away is an overgrown old 
cemetery.  They start toward it... and WE CUT TO:

EXT.  WASHINGTON D.C. - ROOFTOP OF THE INS BUILDING DAY 
An amazing antennae reaches toward the sky.

ZED'S VOICE (OVER)
Holy shit...

We hear a computer printing out and we tilt down the length of the 
antenna and CUT INSIDE TO:

INT.  INS OFFICE - SPECIAL SERVICES, INTERGALACTIC BUREAU 
The antenna continues down from the roof and through the ceiling and 
then terminates in a COMPUTER, which prints out in front of Zed.

ZED 
Jesus Christ...

As Zed grabs his radio, WE CUT TO:

EXT.  WOODS - NEARING THE OLD GRAVEYARD
Jay and Kay and Laurel are making their way up the incline...

LAUREL
(to the sloping ground)
You know, I gotta say something, I don't think this hill was here two 
days ago.

Kay hears his radio squalk and Zed comes on the line.

ZED'S VOICE (ON RADIO)
Kay!  Kay! pick up!

Kay grabs his radio.  And we INTERCUT between Zed and the three of them 
as the mount the rise toward the cemetery.

KAY
Yeah?  What's up?

ZED
I got a planet check on that bug.  It's from way the hell out in the 
third belt. it's organic, formed in the same blast that made our solar 
system.

As Zed is speaking, Laurel and Jay and Kay have reached the crest of 
the rise and are now able to so into the graveyard.  Laurel stops 
first. Jay stops next.  Then Kay.

ZED (CONTINUING)
And get this: you know how humans evolved from primates?  Well guess 
what the dominant life form on planet evolved from?

KAY
Don't tell me.  Insects.

REVERSE ANGLE
What they are looking at is:

THE OLD CEMETARY
The ground sags-- as though what's under it had been hollowed out and 
is nearly collapsing.  And the tombstones list to the side, or toppled 
onto one another.  But the big deal is:

The 25 foot dirt hill in the center of it all.  With a on the top.

ZED
How'd you know?

KAY
(to Zed) Just a guess.  But I think found a nest.

LAUREL
I swear to God, that was not here two days ago...

JAY
What is it?

LAUREL
It's the most amazing insect nest I've ever seen.  And I'll tell you 
one thing, it sure as hell ain't the Andean Mollatoosa.

JAY
But it's definitely a nest, isn't it?

LAUREL
Man, hey-- maybe you are an entopologist after all.

She starts toward it.  Jay and Kay follow.

INT. 25 FOOT HIGH "ANT HILL" - A MOMENT LATER
Kay and Jay and Laurel gradually make their way, with flashlights, down 
the hole.  In the dirt are bones, skulls, old caskets... anything that 
was underground when the earth was overturned.

KAY
The dirt's fresh.  It was just dug out recently.  But it's odd... 
Records showed nothings arrived even close to this area.

JAY
Since how long?

KAY
Since as long as we've been keeping records...

Kay pulls out the meter again.  Hits a few buttons.

KAY
Still showing no life...

JAY '
Why, if it's a nest, would the meter not show any life?

They reach the bottom.  Shine the light on:

A VAST UNDERGROUND CAVERN
It's huge, cavernous, dark.  And the dirt floor is lined with thousands 
and thousands of small, viscous white shells.

LAUREL
Cause it's no longer a nest.  (kneels)  These eggs are all hatched.

JAY
When?

LAUREL
It would've had to have been recently-- within a few weeks.

JAY
So... how did they get here?

KAY
Maybe they didn't get here.  Maybe they've been here.

JAY
For how long?

KAY  (shrugs)
My guess?  Longer than we've been around.

JAY  (looks at vast cavern)
I don't get it. The shells are so small.  How'd they dig all this out?

KAY
We saw it in the office.  It went from this big... (tiny)   to big...  
(huge)  in a day.

JAY
Well, if the bugs have hatched, and they're not here... then where are 
they?

Laurel, who is continuing to explore, calls at them...

LAUREL
Uh... guys.

Jay and Kay look at each other, then walk toward where she's standing.  
They arrive, and then shine their light on what she's shining her light 
on:

JAY
Holy shit...

REVERSE ANGLE - THEIR POV
-They are looking toward the far end of the cavern, where we see, 
illuminated in the very back, is a very strange sight:

A huge (almost 30 yards high), cubist-- almost-surrealist-- statue.  
Only it's not a statue.  It's more like a compilation of blocks of 
white stone, piled one on top of another.

LAUREL
What the hell is this?

They walk up to it.

KAY
It's marble.

JAY
All of it?

Kay nods.  Kneels.  Looks closer.

JAY
This is very, very odd.

They look at all the marble.  It's not just blocks of stone.  Some of 
them seen to have been sculpted, or carved.

Kay finds one in particular.  It looks like a finger.

KAY
I know what this is.  (into radio)  Zed, you in?

ZED'S VOICE
Yeah, Kay?

KAY
Did our friend announce when he's making his speech?

ZED'S VOICE
Noon exactly.

KAY
Did he say where?

ZED'S VOICE
Actually, yeah--

KAY
Wouldn't happen to be the Lincoln Memorial, would it?

ZED'S VOICE
(beat)  How'd you know that?  Kay?

KAY
Cause I think we're looking at it.

Laurel follows Kay's gaze.  As does Jay.  All three are now looking at:

THE PILE OF ROCKS
And now that we have a clearer context for what it is, its somewhat 
strewn-together form begins to make a little more visual sense:

It's the STATUE OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN, only it's been taken apart Md 
rebuilt -- with the same pieces and even in the same general order... 
but the pieces have been just piled one on top of the other-- to form 
this odd, cubist, surrealist version of Abe Lincoln

HOLD for a beat, then CUT TO:

EXT.  WASHINGTON MALL  SAME

The Lincoln Memorial. Still there, still looking extremely Abraham 
Lincoln-asque as we HEAR, amplified over the huge crowd an the 
Washington Mall, CARL SAGAN as he speaks to the hundreds of thousands 
of gathering people.

Behind him, on the stage, is the crystalline glass space ship.

CARL SAGAN
Welcome, welcome my fellow... "earthlings." This truly is the beginning 
of a new millenium...

We PUSH IN on the memorial.  And we don't see anything wrong with it. 
Well, maybe-- just maybe-- it might seem to shimmer a little, as though 
parts of it were actually alive.  But you'd have to be looking really 
really close.  And, before we can do that, WE CUT TO:

EXT.  VIRGINIA 
The LTD roars past at lightning speed.  The regular RADIO is on, and is 
constantly supplying the continually-updating alien info.

RADIO
President is here... as well as the leaders of over seventeen different 
nations...

JAY (V.O.)
Would you call this a code 100?

KAY (V.0.)
I'd double it and add 20.

INT.  LTD 
Kay drives.  Jay's head is g-forced back against the seat.

JAY
We have till noon, right?  What time is it? --I'd look, but I can't 
turn my head.

KAY
It's 11:41.

Jay forces his head sideways...

JAY
Listen, Laurel... driving like this may be hard for you.  My suggestion 
is--

He finally gets his head turned and finds himself face to face with 
Laurel, who, is sitting up in her seat, having no problems at all.

LAUREL
Really nice wheels, by the way.

KAY
Wait-- listen--

RADIO
... still sequestered in his penthouse suite adjacent to the mall, 
where security and...

KAY
We're gonna have to split up.

Kay pulls the car to the side of the road near people selling "I SAW 
THE ALIEN" t-shirts.

EXT.  WASHINGTON MALL - CONTINUOUS
Kay, Jay and Laurel pour'out of the car.  Kay rushes to the back of the 
LTD and removes some supplies from the trunk.

Behind them, we see and hear the roar of the crowd as Carl Sagan speaks 
about the universe and all that it holds...

KAY
(over the noise)  I'm going to try and cut him off at the hotel.  You 
guys get to the Memorial.
(to weapons from trunk)  Keep this stuff hidden.  The last thing we 
need is some over-zealous Secret Service twirp to...

JAY
Do his job.

KAY
Right.  Oh, and here.

Kay hands Jay an Edna and what looks very much like a sawed off 
shotgun. Jay looks at it, impressed.

JAY
Wow... this one's cool.  And it looks just like a shotgun.

KAY
Actually, it is a shotgun.  Hold onto it--

JAY
in case I need it?

KAY
In case I need it.

Jay tucks the gun behind his back, under his suit coat.

JAY
Okay.  You got it.  And Kay-- How do I-- Kay?

But Kay's already cone.  Laurel turns to Jay.  The two of then stant in 
the midst of the huge lawn and the packed crowd.

LAUREL
What do we do?

JAY
What do we do?  (thinks, then)  Lean into it.

LAUREL
What the hell does that mean?

JAY
Actually... I don't know.

And they start into the crowd as WE CUT TO:

INT.  "GREEN ROOM" TENT - SAME
Sagan's speech enters the tent two ways: it wafts through the openings, 
and it's on the TV monitors which carry it LIVE on CNN.

WORLD LEADERS are gathered with the President (going over notes) an 
many of the other IMPORTANT PEOPLE we saw earlier.  At the moment, 
there is a swirl of spin-guys and media people.

MEDIA GUY
Okay... Sagan's finishing his speech and is about to introduce the 
President. (to the President) Keep it brief.  Blah blah, contact, blah 
blah, administration, blah blah... We'll line up the Premier, the Prime 
Minister, the King here, Monsieur President, all of you... and... we 
got Yaz making his big entrance--  (to OTHER SUITS)  He still coming in 
his glass ship-thing?  (off their nods) Okay... and...    (into a 
walkie talkie)    What's the ETA on the Yazater?

CUT TO: INT.  HOTEL HALLWAY - PENTHOUSE 
Lined with security.  At the head of the line another media guy listens 
to his walkie talkie.  The Media Guy knocks on Yaz's door-door with a 
huge "Do NOT DISTURB" sign.

MEDIA GUY
Sir?

YAZ'S VOICE (FROM INSIDE)
Two minutes.

MEDIA GUY
(into valkie talkie) We're right on schedule.

Meanwhile--

AT THE BOTTOM OF THE HOTEL

Kay moves into the lobby, where he is immediately stopped by SECURITY.  
They surround him with guns.

GUARD #16
Hold it.

KAY
(removing Carte Noire)  INS-- Special Services.  I need to--

Kay inserts the Carte Noire into the security slot.  A readout says 
"TERMINATE CARDHOLDER." The Security People are on him instantly.

GUARD #4
Hands up.  NOW.

KAY
Fine.  Oh-- here-- you may want this, too.

What was "this"' It's a NITROGENIZER.  And instantly the entire 
security unit is frozen solid.

Kay moves through the now-mannequined lobby, toward the elevator, and 
WE CUT TO:

EXT.  WASHINGTON HALL ON STAGE 
Saran wrap up his speech and turns to the aid... gets the "OK" from the 
events crew people, then turns back to the audience.

CARL SAGAN
And now... it is my extreme pleasure to introduce...

IN THE GREEN ROOM TENT

CARL SAGAN (ON TV)
the President of the Un--

MEDIA GUY

The door opens and the line of Important People begins to file out.

IN THE DENSE CROWD

WILD CHEERS!  Laurel and.Jay fight through the throngs.  It's tough to 
maneuver.

JAY  (yelling)
We gotta get closer-- I don't even have a shot from here...

Jay shoves a GUY in a "LOVE EVERYBODY" t-shirt aside and pushes on.

GUY IN "LOVE EVERYBODY" T-SHIRT 
Hey!  Fuck you, asshole!

INT.  PENTHOUSE HALLWAY
GUARDS, hearing something, turn and freeze, guns drawn. That's cause 
Kay is rounding the corner onto the floor... He hurries past the guards 
and reaches the "DO NOT DISTURB" sign oi the door.  Which he opens.

Revealing:

INT.  YAZ'S SUITE - CONTINUOUS
It's covered with and literally dripping in goo.  Waxy, gloppy, drippy, 
green substance hangs from the ceiling and covers every wall.  There 
are combs and vestibules and very little furniture is left visible.

Ray enters.  Looks around.  Sees some kind of webbing-- like the kind 
spiders use to trap food.

And you can tell Yaz had ordered room service, cause there's an 
uneaten, full room service cart... and a half-eaten bellman, wrapped in 
a white webbing. There's a TV on, broacasting the continuing good 
nova... 

THE PRESIDENT
An answer to a prayer that each and every one of us has shared...

Then the sound of a blow dryer drowns the sound of the TV. Kay moves 
across the room.   Toward: THE BATHROOM in which we can now see...

YAZ ... putting the finishing touches on his nicely coifed human hair.  
He combs, dries, combs, dries.

Then sets the drier down and does a 70's David Cassidy "flip" of high 
bangs.  Notices something in the mirror.

It's Kay, standing in the doorway, gun drawn.

KAY  (to the ubiquitous goo)
Gonna have to leave a hell of a tip for the maid.

YAZ
Yes, well, as you see, I left a hell of a tip for the Bellboy.

Yaz starts to move.

KAY
DON'T MOVE.

Yaz smiles.  And seems to disappear.

Kay turns.  Looks.  He can't see Yaz anywhere. Then Kay is tapped on 
the shoulder.

And Yaz is standing behind him, smiling. Kay turns.  Looks at Yaz, 
standing above him.

Kay, slowly and secretly, begins to inch his fingers toward his bel as 
Yaz begins to circle him.

YAZ
Camouflauge.  Well very, very, very good at it.  This skin.  This hair. 
This English-- the very noises I an making, right now, word, and one-- 
it's just... camouflauge.  All designed to make you humans feel "okay" 
about me.  Sure, it's a bit more sophisticated than you're used to-- 
but I'm from another planet.  We can do this.

Kay suddenly pulls another gun.  And fires. But just as he does--
YAZ dissappears. Again.  And Kay ends up only blasting a hole in the 
penthouse mini-bar.

Kay turns... stalking... the barrel of his Edna rifle shifting as his 
eyei shift...

KAY
Not bad.  Briliiant, actually.  You come unarmed, and alone.  Cause 
your army's been growing underground for what? 100 years? 150?

YAZ (O.S.)
Give or take.  It was right around your civil war, I think, when I was 
here last.  We were waiting till your planet was warm enough.

Yaz suddenly appears on the bed, plucking a finger from the halfeaten 
bellman and chewing it as though it were a grape.

YAZ (CONTINUING)
Simple biology.  And unfortunately,because of its simplicity, it's 
something far too complex for you to stop.

Kay wheels, FIRES... and rips down out of the pillows...

YAZ (O.S.)
Worse than trying to nab one of those pesky mosquitos in the middle of 
the night, isn't it?

OUTSIDE - ON THE MALL
Jay's radio squalks and Zed comes on.  It's hard for them to talk over 
the President's continuing upbeat speech and the wild cheers of the 
crowd.

ZED's VOICE
I finally heard from the Alliance... These guys are serious--

JAY  (over him)
No shit--

ZED'S VOICE
They've been to 13 planets so far this millenium.  Apparently the 
insects, if you can call them that, respond to fear.

JAY  (over crowd cheers)
What?

ZED'S VOICE
They're blind--

LAUREL
Pheromones!  Like how a bee knows you're angry oi afraid.

JAY
Great.  So it'll be easy-- just tell everybody not to be afraid, and 
we're fine. 13 planets, huh?  What's his record?

ZED'S VOICE
You don't wanna know.  He's 13 and 0.

Jay looks one more time at the Memorial.  Sitting there.  Barely 
moving...

JAY
Is it my eyes... or is that thing a little...

LAUREL
Out of focus?

They squint.  As they do, we PUSH IN FROM THEIR POV.

THE LINCOLN MEMORIAL does, actually, look a little less... delineated.  
As if, perhaps, it were not made up of rocks, but, say... things which 
are alive.

INT.  YAZ'S HOTEL SUITE - SAME
Kay stands in the room, holding his clun... searching, stalking.  The 
President continues on the TV...

PRESIDENT (ON TV)
For so long we've searched the skies for an answer... and finally, the 
skies have responded...

...and Kay shatters the now-smoking set.

YAZ (O.S.)
I couldn't agree with you more.  I find it so depressing, the human's 
lazy, misguided wish that their problems would just... end.

He then appears back in the bathroom, checking his teeth.

YAZ (CONTINUING)
You know, sometimes I have to remind myself-- when I almost start to 
actually feel sorry for you-that this il a charity mission.  That I am, 
in fact, here on a mission of goodwill.

He disappears again.  Kai keeps moving...

KAY
Goodwill...

YAZ (O.S.)
Most entirely.  Earth has been overrun with an infestation of a species 
which, in order for the planet to survive, must be exterminated.

He appears again... standing behind Kay and holding Kay's gun, again.

YAZ (CONTINUING)
That species to which I am referring is, of course, you humans.  (to 
gun tug of war)
Mr. Kay.  Seriously.  Any schoolboy knows that an insect can lift two 
hundred times his own weight.

And he simply takes the gun from Kay's hands.

YAZ (CONTINUING)
And that it's the insects, truly, which your planet can not do 
without...

Kay suddenly senses something and looks down. A sticky, white, stringy 
substance is starting to form at his feet.  And he can not move.  Ho 
looks up.

YAZ (CONTINUING)
And which, of course, will be around far, far longer than any of you.  
Certainly longer than you, personally, will be.

And with that--

Yaz suddenly UNHINGES HIS JAW like a boa constrictor and, as only a 
malevolent being from the other side of the galaxy can do... Yaz opens 
his mouth SIX FEET WIDE... throws his LONG TONGUE out and around Kay 
and in one brief but horrifying instant, he SUCKS KAY...

INTO HIS MOUTH...

YAZ  (mouth full)
Sorry.  But in the battle between brains and instinct... the sucker 
bet's on the brains.

And he swallows.  And WE CUT TO:

EXT.  STAGE/CROWD/WASHINGTON
Wild cheers as Laurel and Jay push their way forward and--

THE PRESIDENT (AMPLIFIED) (grandly gestures)
And now I am humbled and proud to announce

JAY(over noise)
Where are you?

EXT.  BALOCONY OF HIS PENTHOUSE SUITE
Yaz-- now 15 feet tell-- steps out into the bright sunlight, waving to 
the cheering from the crowd just a short ways away...

And steps over to his CRYSTALLINE GLASS SPACESHIP, which glints in the 
sun on the other side of the balcony...

THE PRESIDENTIS AMPLIFIED VOICE (wafting over Washington)
... one small step for, well, for someone who looks like a man...

IN THE CROWD
Jay and Laurel move closer toward the stage, and to the Lincoln 
Memorial.. Laurel taps Jay on the shoulder.  Points down.

LAUREL
Jay.

Suddenly--

FLOWERS are growing.  Just spouting up from the ground.  Beautiful, 
colorful flowers. People pick them.  Cheer.

PRESIDENT
And one giant leap for... (TOTALLY DROWNED OUT BY CHEERS) Here he is, 
ladies and Gentlemen

One looks to--

THE SKY
Where, bathed in sunlight and with a rainbow is an exhaust trail...

THE CRYSTALLINE GLASS SPACESHIP
Begins its quiet, peaceful, perfectly executed descent.

VARIOUS SHOTS
We see it on TV.  We see people watching it on TV.  We note the 
skepticism, the wonder, the amazement... as:

EXT.  WASHINGTON MALL - ON STAGE
The President, the World Leaders-- EVERYONE-- watches, thrilled, 
except--

JAY AND LAUREL
Who push past people and rush up toward--

THE STAGE
Where door of the ship opens.  And...

YAZ emerges, tall and handsome and winning. Wild pandemonium.  Absolute 
frenzy from the crowd, as-He approaches the microphone.

YAZ
I am here on a mission of goodwill.

More CHEERS.  Yaz quiets them.  It takes a moment, but he does it.

YAZ (CONTINUING)
When a farmer has an infestation of, say, aphids, sometimes all it 
taken are a few ladybugs to get rid of the problem.  Well, earth, too, 
has an infestation...

People become silent.  Everybody want to hear this.  In fact, it gets 
so quiet that people can HEAR ONE SINGLE VOICE from the crowd:

JAY (O.S.)
Not necessarily.

Suddenly Yaz stops.  Looks down.

JAY is standing below him, pointing his Edna right at him.

Of course, instantly security is moving and almost fires when--

YAZ  (quickly interjects)  
No no.  Please!  He won't shoot.

VARIOUS SHOTS - ALL AROUND THE GLOBE
Everywhere people are watching TV, they are now watching a shot of the 
mall, the alien, and ONE LITTLE MAN standing below him holding a gun.  
And the alien isn't bothered in the least.

CONTINUING - LIVE:
JAY
How can you be so sure?

YAZ
Easy.

Suddenly -- and right in front of everybody-- Yaz unbuttons his shirt 
and rips his chest open, revealing:

INSIDE HIM-- suspended in a now-open pouch in the center of his body, 
writhing and squirming and now finally able to gasp for air...

... is Kay.

KAY
Do IT!  SHOOT HIM!

JAY
Kay!?

YAZ
Not so sure yourself any more, are you?  Huh?  Well, what does you 
brain tell you to do now?  Well, guess what?  IT DOESN'T MATTER ANY 
MORE.

ALL AROUND

People are shocked.  Some start to scream.  The panic picks up momentum 
as there's a quickly rising wave of fear rippling audibly across the 
field of people and then--

Yaz smiles and--

IT HAPPENS.  Yaz emits a loud, shrill, piercing bleat, and--

THE LINCOLN MEMORIAL
Suddenly bursts apart into thousands and thousands of screeching, 
horrifying "INSECTS", causing--

ON STAGE
Everyone who was there the President, the World laaders -- to be thrown 
hurtling off into:

THE CROWD
Which has instantly been transformed into a screaming, panicked mob of 
terrified humans.

Laurel and Jay are blown by the force backwards and into the frenzied 
swirl of thousands of running, tripping feet.

The President runs through the crowd, just as scared as everyone else.  
So do all the other world leaders.

ALL AROUND
Creatures surface from everywhere, attracted to the zillions of fei 
pheromones being emmitted by the frenzied, panicked mass.

Highly adapted to camoflauge as they are, the "insects" are very 
difficult to see until the instant they attack.  As they pass things-- 
telephone poles, first aid tents, even other people-- the are able to 
take on similar colors and shapes (remember when we sa the little one 
in Laurelis office-- and then saw it bigger and fiercer when it ate Dee 
and multiplied).  So, therefore:

People diva into cars for safety.  But when one person opens a car 
door, he finds it's not a door-- it's a wing, and as soon as he pulls 
it, the front grille of the car turns and reveals itself to be teeth, 
and-Me bar itself literally devours the person-- then it multiplies 
into two creatures which, in turn, lurch after other screaming 
passersby.  What looks like a low-hanging cloud attacks someone.  
Someone runs into a building which isn't a building at all. -The entire 
first aid tent eats five people and multiplies.  And in the middle of 
it all:

INTERCUT YAZ
Who is smiling triumphantly.  The calm at the eye of the storm.

YAZ
Well.  I couldn't have asked for it to go any more smoothly than that, 
could I? Now what?
(looks at his watch)  Oh, good.  I can make it home and see how the 
rest of the 67 World Series
turns out.      

He rubs his hands together-- a job well done.  And turns toward the 
ship, which waits for him, untouched, on the stage.

IN THE MIDDLE OF THE FRENZIED, PANICKED CROWD
Jay and Laurel roust each other.  Have to yell over the pandemonium.

LAUREL
Jay!  Jay, what can we do?

JAY
Okay.  If you've got a bug problem-a big one.  And they're swarming and 
there's no way to shoot them all individually... how do you get rid of 
them?

LAUREL
The only thing I could think of would be... you'd have to get rid of 
the queen.

JAY
What if you have the foggiest clue as to where the queen is?

LAUREL
Are you sure you don't?

There's a brief pause.  Then the two of them look back up toward...

THE STAGE - NEAR HIS SHIP
Where Yaz is now mounting the steps, smug and self-congratulatory.

YAZ
And now, unfortunately, I must bid you all farewell.  Thank you all 
very, very, very such...

He closes his skin back up... as--

INSIDE OF HIM

The INNER WORKINGS of Yazls digestive system start to secrete all sorts 
of acidic, gastric substance.

Kay tries to kick and punch and flail... and--

OUT IN THE CROWD

Jay looks at Laurel.  She looks at him.  Jay grabs his Edna--

LAUREL
What are you doing?

JAY
They respond to fear, right?

LAUREL
Yeah ... ?

JAY
Well I'm going to give them something to be afraid of.

And they start up toward the stage.  Jay taking shots-- BLAM BLAM -- 
BIAM -- at bugs, as--

ALL AROUND THE WORLD - SERIES OF SHOTS

it is mass pandemonium.  In China.  Japan.  France.  Anywhere they have 
a TV people are terrified.  People run out of stores and dash madly 
through the streets.  Lock and bolt windows.  Lock car doors. Stuff 
furniture into their chimneys.  Block every possible opening

VARIOUS REPORTERS
In various languages say variations, on:

REPORTERS #46-59
The aliens are ONLY in Washington. Repeat: at the moment, they are ONLY 
IN WASHINGTON.

REPORTER #82
But they're multiplying.  They seem to be geometrically increasing in 
number.

REPO 104
...increasing at a rate which would mean	that... (turns to colleague)
How much time before there's one for every person on the planet?

REPORTER #104'S COLLEAGUE
At this rate it would be... (finishes calculations) Twenty minutes.

CUT TO: MORE PANIC.  Screaming.  Frenzy.  The worst nightmare of any 
human, anywhere, at any time.  All around the world.

EXT.  WASHINGTON HALL/ON STAGE/ALL AROUND
AS the crowd dives and runs and screamn and leaps into the water--

ON THE STAGE

Yaz, stopping at the top of his ship to take one last survey of the 
melee of destruction helk set in motion... sees:

JAY, standing below him, pointing his gun.

YAZ
YOU don't give up, do you?

And Yaz-- with a simple, and quick-- flick of his tongue... dislodges 
Jay's gun from Jay's outstretched hands.

It was so simple, it would seem as if Jay had almost wanted him to do 
that.

Yaz turns to enter his ship.  When Jay calls out to him.

JAY
Hey.  Yaz.

YAZ  (turns)
Yes'?

Jay's nervous.  We see him standing there.  Trying something. what we 
don't know.  But he's giving it all he's got.

JAY
You... you think you're pretty god damn smart, don't you?

YAZ  (snickers derisively)
"Think." "God." "Smart." Such misguided human concepts, all of them.

JAY
Yeah... well... Go to hell!

Whatever Jay's trying, it looks lame.  To us, to Yaz.  To Laurel, who 
has arrived at the base of the stage.

YAZ
"Hell?" Again, I'm afraid I don't quite grasp such a petty human 
notion. (annoyed, turning back)
Now, if you're through with your childish name-calling..

JAY
No.  I'm not through with you!

Yaz is starting to get really frustrated.  Especially when Jay says:

JAY
Me, you slithering, slimy, pathetic little bug.

Yaz just rolls his eyes.  Sighs.

YAZ
Fine.  It would be my pleasure--

And HE DOES -- UNHINGING HIS JAW and WRAPPING HIS TONGUE AROUND JAY
and as Laurel yells--

LAUREL
Jay!?  What the hell are you doing!?

Yaz opens his mouth huge and wide and says...

YAZ
People.  Never can eat just one.

And he sucks Jay back into his mouth and, as--

LAUREL
Screams and--

ALL AROUND THE MALL
it's pandemonium...

ON STAGE

Yaz enters his ship and--

INSIDE OF YAZ

Jay falls through the slick, viscous, disgusting, slimy gullet of Yaz, 
upside down, where he slithers into--

THAT POUCH
in which Kay is also lodged.

Through the thick goo they manage to make contact.  Kay looks petit, 
weak from holding his breath, and a little surprised to see him.

And Jay is... SMILING!?

In fact, he even gives Kay the thumbs-up.

Then he notions-- slowly, because the fluid is thick in here-- for Kay 
to 'hang on a sec" while Jay reaches behind his back and pulls out...

KAY'S SHOTGUN,
Kay looks at Jay through the dense, viscous fluid.  Jay smiles.  Hands 
Kay his gun.

ON STAGE 
Yaz sits at the controls.  Is about to start the engine... when he 
hears what SOUNDS like the MUFFLED CH-CHOCK of a shotgun cocking... as-
-

INSIDE OF YAZ
Kay PULLS THE TRIGGER and--

KABLAM! -- KAY BLASTS YAZ FROM THE INSIDE

WIDE SHOT
inside the glass ship, as YAZ explodes outward, the force causes the 
glass ship to explode as well.

The Bug flies into two pieces -- the butt end sailing one way; the head 
flying behind Jay and pieces of Yaz fly every which way...

Kay and Jay drop out from inside him, covered in goo and glass and 
innards.  They fall with a clunk onto the stage. Kay's edna atomizer 
gun is thrown in the blast.

Laurel-- bathed in goo from the explosion-- rushes up to them as- Kay 
picks himself up.  Turns to Jay, who does the same.

Jay is pissed and starts in on Kay.

JAY
You son of a --

Kay holds up a finger in a 'wait a minute' gesture -- pulls out his 
pocket phone and hits a number.

KAY
Zed. The BUG has been neutralized.

INT. MIB HEADQUARTERS - NIGHT
Zed is standing at the console, a smile on his face. He glances over at 
the console that displays
alien arrivals and departures on the earth. The red lights are coming 
back on.

ZED
I think the word's already out. Our friends are coming back.   (then)  
Got an authorized landing at
Times Square. You and Jay check it out on the way back... And pick me 
up one of those soft
pretzels, while you're at it. Extra salt. I feel like celebrating.

EXT. WORLD'S FAIR - NIGHT
Kay flips the phone closed.

KAY
You were saying?

JAY
Getting eaten!? That was your plan!?

KAY   (shrugs)
Worked.

As they argue, behind them, unseen, THE FRONT HALF OF THE BUG RAISES 
ITSELF UP on
its forearms, eyes gleaming with hate, jaws dripping -- ready to lower 
itself onto Kay and Jay.

JAY
After I got the shit beat out of me!

KAY
And I almost got digested. It goes with the job.

JAY
You coulda told me what you were doing.

KAY
There wasn't time, sport!

HISSS! The Bug attacks, swinging its head down on them. They turn to 
see it, and just before
the jaws snap down on their heads...

BOOM! The Bug's head explodes into a million bits. Bug juice showers 
down everywhere,
bucketsful of goo drenching Kay and Jay even further.

They turn to see...

LAUREL standing behind the dead Bug, the other atomizer in her hands, 
the barrel smoking, the
weapon and Laurel dripping the Bug innards.

LAUREL
Interesting job you guys got.

CUT TO:
EXT. MIB BUILDING - NIGHT

Kay's LTD is parked outside Men in Black headquarters. LAUREL leans her 
back against the car.
We see JAY and KAY walking away in the distance.

JAY
Look, I know we got rules, but she did just help bust the Bug for us.  
And so maybe you don't have to flashy thing her.

Kay pulls out the neuralyzer.

JAY
Who's she gonna tell, anyway? She only hangs out with dead people.

KAY
Not her. Me.  (looking up at the sky)  They're beautiful, aren't they? 
The stars. I never just look
anymore and they're beautiful.

JAY
Kay, you're scaring your partner.

KAY
I haven't been training a partner -- I've been training a replacement.

JAY
Oh no, I can't do this job by myself.

LAUREL  (walking towards them)
Hey, guys, we're nowhere near my apartment. We're not even on the right 
island.

KAY
Maybe you won't have to.

Kay starts dialing back the neuralyzer.

KAY
Days. Months. Years. Always face it forwards.

He hands the neuralyzer to Jay. Taps his pocket. Indicates for him to 
put his glasses on. Jay
resists.

KAY
I've just been down the gullet of an interstellar cockroach. That's one 
of a hundred memories I
don't want.

Jay takes the neuralyzer. Slips on his glasses.

KAY
See you around, sport.

Jay raises the neuralyzer. With a brilliant FLASH, the screen turns 
white.

JAY
No, you won't.

CUT TO:
EXT. NEWSSTAND - DAY

CLOSE ON various tabloid headlines as a hand flicks through them. 
Here's one:

Mets' Centerfielder Says:
"UFO MADE ME MISS HOME RUN BALL!"

And here's another one:
DETROIT HAS CAR THAT DEFIES GRAVITY!
Secret Tests in N.Y.'s Tunnel

And a third:
MAN AWAKENS FROM 30-YEAR COMA!
Returns to Girl He Left Behind

 A large photograph shows a smiling KAY, arm-in-arm with ELIZABETH 
RESTON,
 his long-lost fiancee, in her back yard in Tempe, Arizona.

She holds a large bouquet of flowers, the same kind he brought but 
never gave her thirty years
ago.

JAY, who's reading the paper, smiles.

AT THE CURB, Jay hurries back to the LTD with the newspapers. ELLE, 
(formerly Laurel), is
waiting, leaning against the hood. Tailored black suit. Black shoes. 
Short-cropped hair. The look
never looked better.

ELLE
Zed called. The High Consulate of Regent-9 emissary wants floor seats 
to the Knicks -- Bulls
game.

JAY
I'll talk to Dennis Rodman, it's his damn planet.

ELLE
Let's roll.

Both car doors SLAM, Jay drops it in gear, and the LTD BLASTS away from 
the curb.

EXT. NEW YORK CITY BLOCK - DAY

The LTD is just one of many cars in a jam-packed Manhattan city block.

FROM UP IN THE CLOUDS

Manhattan itself is just part of a much larger urban and suburban 
sprawl.

FROM THE STRATOSPHERE

The east coast of the United States is just part of a much larger land 
mass.

FROM THE EOSPHERE

North America is just a small portion of the planet Earth.

FROM SPACE

Earth is just a tiny ball in our solar system.

FROM THE MIDDLE OF THE MILKY WAY

Our solar system is just a few blips of light in a vast star field.

FROM OUTSIDE OUR GALAXY

The Milky Way is just a creamy spiral amid innumerable other creamy 
spirals.

FROM THE OUTER REACHES OF THE UNIVERSE

There seems to be an edge to what we see, a curved border that seems to 
close in on things
around the perimeters, until everything that exists seems to be 
contained in one tiny ball --

-- which is actually a marble resting on a strange-looking patch of red 
dirt.

An ALIEN HAND reaches down and flicks the marble, sending it skittering 
and bouncing across
the dirt, where it CLICKS into a dozen other big blue balls just like 
it.

FADE OUT.

