

			 TERMINATOR 2: JUDGMENT DAY

			O M I T T E D   S C E N E S

				EXTENDED FUTURE WAR
				  SARAH'S E.C.T.
				  MISSILE DREAM
				 SALCEDA'S DEATH
					GANT RANCH
				  DYSON'S VISION

					   by

				  James Cameron

					  and

				  William Wisher

----------------------------------------------------------

				EXTENDED FUTURE WAR

					5/10/90

The original 5/10/90 draft contained an extended future
war scene that not only addressed the defeat of Skynet
and the backstory of how Reese and the Terminator went
back through time as mentioned in the first film, but also
the backstory of the second film on how the second
Terminator was sent through.  Cut from the script after
the first draft, the scene -- although rich in action and
resonance to the first film and its concepts -- was a
narrative tangent to the main story of the film and would
have cost an inordinate amount of time, money, and effort
to produce.  This future scene also had the adult John
Connor as its narrator.

EXT.  CITY STREET - DAY

Downtown L.A.  Noon on a hot summer day.  On an EXTREME
LONG LENS the lunchtime crowd stacks up into a wall of
humanity.  In SLOW MOTION they move in herds among the
glittering rows of cars jammed bumper to bumper.  Heat
ripples distort the torrent of faces.  The image is
surreal dreamy... and like a dream it begins very slowly
to...

								   DISSOLVE TO:

EXT.  CITY RUINS - DAY

Same spot as the last shot, but now it is a frozen
landscape in Hell.  The cars are stopped in rusted rows,
still bumper to bumper.  The skyline of buildings beyond
has been shattered by some unimaginable force like a row
of kicked-down sandcastles.  The sky glows, dark as iron.

A freezing wind blows through the desolation, keening with
the sound of ten million dead souls.  It scurries the snow
into drifts, stark white against the charred rubble.  Fire
and ice.  The image is without color... lifeless as the
moon.  A TITLE CARD FADES IN:

		LOS ANGELES, AUGUST 11, 2029

ANGLE ON a heap of fire-blackened bones.  Skulls identify
them as human.  WE BEGIN TO TRACK, revealing beyond the
mound a vast tundra of bones and shattered concrete.
Skulls like eyeless sentinels.  The rush hour crowds
burned down in their tracks.
We hear a MAN"S VOICE, gentle, though rich in authority,
and tempered by the pain of watching a world die.

					MAN (V.O.)
		It all came down on a Tuesday in
		September of '99.  Pretty normal
		day, except for the end of the world
		part.  Somehow, I don't remember
		how, we started calling it Judgment
		Day.  I was in Argentina that
		particular Tuesday.  A good place to
		be, considering everything alive
		north of the equator stopped being
		alive...

WE DISSOLVE TO a playground... where intense heat has
half-melted the jungle gym, the blast has warped the swing
set, the merry-go-round has sagged in the firestorm.
Small skulls look accusingly from the snow-drifts.  WE
HEAR the distant echo of children's voices... playing and
laughing in the sun.  A silly, sing-songy rhyme as WE
TRACK SLOWLY over seared asphalt where the faint
hieroglyphs of hopscotch lines are still visible.

					MAN (V.O.)
		Afterward it got cold.  Real cold.
		Nuclear winter they called it.  The
		few that survived, starved...

CAMERA comes to a rest on a burnt and rusted tricycle...
next to the tiny skull of its owner.  A metal foot crushes
the skull like china.

					MAN (V.O.)
		The few that survived that saw the
		Machines rise up... machines of many
		types but with one purpose... to
		hunt us down and kill us all like a
		bunch of cockroaches...

TILT UP, revealing a humanoid machine holding a massive
battle rifle.  It looks like a hydraulically-actuated
CHROME SKELETON.  A high-tech death figure.  It is a
combat chassis, the underlying component, or endoskeleton,
of a Series 800 Terminator.  An antipersonnel weapon
controlled by Skynet, a computer which is threatening the
human survivors of the war with final extinction.

The endoskeleton's glowing red eyes compassionlessly sweep
the dead terrain, hunting.  Then suddenly snap toward
CAMERA.

ENDOSKELETON POV (DIGITIZED) as it racks a RUNNING FIGURE
across the desolate landscape.  Through these eyes we see
the world as a computer-generated image.  Symbols and
graphics rapidly appear on the center display as the
machine acquires its target.

THE FIGURE, a young boy in rags, is centerpunched by the
deadly round.  He sprawls to a smoking heap on the
blackened sludge.

ANOTHER FIGURE, a guerrilla soldier hefting a battered RPG
rocket launcher.

THE ENDOSKELETON turns, too late.  The rocket vaporizes
the top half of it.  Its bottom half takes a few uncertain
steps, then topples to the earth.

					MAN (V.O.)
		Our stubbornness makes no sense to
		their machine minds.  We fight when
		logic tells us we are beaten.  But
		we have a saying... it's not over
		'till its over.  It keeps us going.
		The war against the Machines is in
		its thirty-first year...

The figure quickly takes cover at the approaching SOUND of
ROARING TURBINES.  A shadow blackens the sky as a
formation of flying HK (Hunter-Killer) patrol machines
passes overhead.
PAN WITH THEM toward the jagged horizon, beyond which we
see flashes, and hear the distant thunder of a pitched
battle in progress.

								   CUT TO:

EXT.  BATTLEFIELD - DAY

THE BATTLE.  Human troops in desperate combat with the
Machines for possession of the dead Earth.  The humans are
a ragtag guerrilla army, made up mostly of troops from
Southern Hemisphere countries... Africans, South
Americans, Australians.  The survivors of the nuclear war
between the Northern Hemisphere super-powers.  This is the
reality of the post-Apocalyptic world.  North of the
equator we all die.

We hear radio chatter in Spanish, interspersed with
Swahili and other African languages.  The occasional
Aussie unit can be heard.
The humans use RPG launchers, plasma-pulse battle rifles,
and home-built armored personnel carriers.

Skynet's weapons consist of the massive ground HKs (tank-
like robot weapon-platforms) flying HKs, medium weight
four-legged gun-pods called Centurions, the humanoid
Terminators in various forms (600, 700, and 800 series),
and small, fast-crawling kamikaze units called Silverfish
that look like 5' long chrome centipedes.  The Silverfish
snake into gun emplacements and explode.

SEQUENCE OF RAPID CUTS

Explosions!
Beam-weapons firing like searing strobe-lights.
Energy bolts crisscrossing frame.
Hand-launched Stinger missiles blowing an aerial HK out of
the sky.
A Sapper team tries to disable a ground HK.  They get
riddled by its rapidly tracking gun turret.

A TEAM OF GUERRILLAS is being overrun by terminator
endoskeletons in the ruins of a building.  One by one, the
soldiers fall in desperate hand-to-hand combat.  One of
the terminators looms over a wounded soldier, its battle
rifle's barrel swinging down toward the guerrilla's head.
The man stares defiantly into his death.  Then...
Suddenly, amazingly, the terminator stops, freezing in
place...

Aerial HKs tilt slowly, out of control, and crash to the
ground.  All the terminators stand frozen, unmoving, like
a bunch of toy soldiers.

The sudden silence takes the humans by surprise.  They
slowly emerge from their rat-warren emplacements and
approach the frozen machines.  We hear a voice speaking
over a radio headset.  It is filled with awed emotion.

					HEADSET VOICE (O.S.)
		... The Colorado Division confirms
		that Skynet has been destroyed...
		The war is over... I repeat, Skynet
		has been destroyed.

CAMERA TRACKS along the soldiers, bleeding, frostbitten,
wrapped in rags... Valley Forge with better weapons.
The wounded soldier in the ruins of the building
cautiously approaches the chrome skeleton before him.  He
pushes against its chest with one finger.  It topples with
a crash and lies still.
The soldier turns to his comrades with an idiot grin.
Tears are streaming down his face.  A mighty cheer goes up
from the men and woman of the Last Army.

INT.  TIME DISPLACEMENT COMPLEX - L.A. - LATER

A STAINLESS STEEL ELEVATOR SHAFT, going deep into the
bowels of the earth.  Tiny figures stand on an open
platform which descends rapidly, becoming a speck.

ON THE PLATFORM.  An imposing man, surrounded by a team of
guerrilla officers stands on the platform as it descends.
He is JOHN CONNOR.  Forty-five years old.  Chiseled.
Stern.  The left side of his face is heavily scarred.  An
impressive man, and clearly one forged in the furnace of a
lifetime of war.  The voice we heard continues now.

					CONNOR (V.O.)
		My name is Connor.  It's my job to
		lead these people.  My mother, Sarah,
		gave me the job... and she's not
		exactly someone you say "no" to.  I
		wish to God I had.  I've sent
		thousands to their deaths.  But let
		me tell you about death in this
		world.  We piss on the bones of a
		billion people.  Death's not what it
		used to be.  If there is a God, his
		love and 45 cents will buy you
		coffee...

The platform reached its destination.  Connor and the
officers step off.  Begin moving down a long corridor.

INT.  CORRIDOR

This place was designed by machines for machines.  The
architecture is alien, without aesthetics, without even
such human basics as doorknobs and lights.  Connor leads
the team past more frozen terminator endoskeletons,
deactivated like the ones on the surface.

					CONNOR (V.O.)
		All these machines were controlled
		by a kind of God, a low-rent self-
		appointed God called Skynet.  Skynet
		was a supercomputer built for
		strategic defense back in the
		Nineties.  Today we destroyed it in
		its fortress in the Colorado Rockies,
		and all its toys stopped...

As they continue on, they pass other teams of guerrilla
soldiers.

					CONNOR (V.O.)
		This place is one of Skynet's toys.
		A machine built by machines.It is
		like nothing which has ever existed
		before... the first tactical time
		weapon.  Before today, no human had
		seen this place, but I've been here
		in my dreams many times.  All my
		life I've tried to imagine what it
		would look like.  Now I'm actually
		here...

INT.  TIME DISPLACEMENT CHAMBER

Vault-like doors open.  Connor strides through with
authority and purpose.  He is saluted smartly by everyone
he encounters, though he wears no insignia of rank.

There is a bustle of hurried activity here.  The chamber
is the size of a high-school gym and consist totally of
machine surfaces.  Nothing in the design makes any sense.
We can't tell what anything does.  It is a technology we
cannot imagine.

					CONNOR (V.O.)
		Skynet, being almost infinitely
		smart, was also infinitely tricky.
		It knew it was losing, so it thought
		of a way to rig the game...

Technicians have pulled up floor panels and tapped
directly into cabling of the machine, using portable
terminals that they have wheeled in.  Many of the soldiers
in this war against machines are technical specialists...
you have to fight fire with fire.

					CONNOR (V.O.)
		And now, though we've won the war,
		there is still one battle left to
		fight.  The most important one.  It
		will be fought in the past, almost
		four decades ago... before all this
		began... See, the only problem with
		time travel is... it ain't over even
		when it's over.

At the far end of the room, a young soldier stands
surrounded by a team of technicians.  KYLE REESE.  Sarah
Connor's defender, teacher, and lover in the first film.
A simple soldier who is about to walk point-blank into the
gaping maw of history.  At the moment, he is the center of
activity.  As he finishes stripping off his battle
uniform, the techs begin smearing his body with a
conductive so the time-field will follow his outline.

Reese looks around at all the activity.  Battle and the
prospect of death have never scared him.  But the
importance of what he is about to do terrifies him.

The techs move aside and suddenly John Connor is standing
beside him.  Connor... their grim messiah.  Their leader.
He fixes Reese with an intense gaze.  There is so much he
wants to say, but cannot bring himself to.  Finally Reese
speaks.

					REESE
		Did you know I'd be the one who
		volunteered?

Connor nods.

					CONNOR
		I've always known.  Sarah told me.

Reese nods.  Suddenly understanding everything.

					REESE
		That's why you moved me to your
		unit?  Kept me so close.

Connor shrugs enigmatically.
One of the techs interrupts them

					TECH
		We're ready, Sergeant.

THREE ENORMOUS CHROME RINGS, one inside the other, are
suspended in a circular hole in the center of the room's
floor.  John and Reese approach them.

Reese steps onto the first ring.  It bobs under his
weight.  We see that the rings are freely floating in a
magnetic field.  Reese steps to the inner ring and looks
into the hole.  A vast echoing darkness below.  He looks
back at John.  The messiah is waiting for him to step into
the bottomless pit.

					CONNOR
		Sometimes you have to put your faith
		in the machine.

Reese takes a breath, then steps into open space and is
buoyed up by an unseen field of force.  He floats in the
middle of the rings.  The techs start the time
displacement sequence.

THE RINGS BEGIN TO MOVE, slowly rotating around each other
on different axis like some complex gyroscope.

THE FLOOR BEGINS TO SPLIT OPEN, like wedges in a pie which
begin to pull back from the center.  The rings are
spinning faster now, suspended in space in the middle of
the receding floor wedges.  The rings begin to descend.

JOHN AND REESE LOCK EYES as they move apart.  Reese is
dropping into an unbelievably vast circular space... the
time-field generator.  John watches him go, until Reese is
a tiny figure.  The rings are spinning so rapidly now they
almost disappear, becoming a sphere of whirling steel.
Technicians pull John back from the edge.

LIGHTNING BEGINS TO ARC across the vast room below.  A
huge charge of energy is building up.  Everyone takes
cover behind blast walls they have set up.  They put on
goggles like they used to do at A-bomb tests.  This is
going to be big.

The chamber below has become a Hell of energy with Reese
at its center.  The drone and crackle of the machines
builds to thunder, there is a BLINDING FLASH OF LIGHT!

When the glare fades the floating rings are empty.  They
slow to a stop, seared and smoking.  Reese is gone.

FUENTES, one of the officers, turns to Connor.

					FUENTES
		Now what happens to Reese?  I mean,
		what did happen?

Connor's gaze seems far away from this time and place.

					CONNOR
		He accomplishes his mission and in
		doing so, he dies.

					FUENTES
		He is a good soldier.

Connor solemnly nods.
					CONNOR
		Yes... He's also my father.

					FUENTES
		Mother of God!

Fuentes stares at Conner in amazement.  He has just been
given a glimpse into his leader's private Hell.  Connor
turns from the smoking chamber.  He seems suddenly ten
years old as his features drain of strength, shoulders
sagging.

Fuentes shouts an order to a waiting Sapper team.

					FUENTES
		Sapper team.  Set your charges.
		Let's blow this place back to Hell.

Connor shakes his head no.  Mustering his strength.

					CONNOR
		Not yet.  There's one more thing we
		have to do.

TIGHT ON MASSIVE DOORS OF STEEL, covered with a thin sheet
of ice.  Locking bolts slam back.  Ice shatters like glass
as the doors begin to open.  We are in--

INT.  COLD STORAGE FACILITY

Connor walks into the darkness, followed by a few
technicians.  They are in a vault-like cold-storage room.
Hanging in steel racks from ceiling tracks are hundreds of
what appear to be men.  They are in rows of ten.  Within
each row, each of the bodies are absolutely identical.

Connor signals the techs to remain by the door and walks
out among the dark bodies.  They are UNACTIVATED
TERMINATORS.  He stops at a row in which they are
identical to the terminator which was sent to kill Sarah
(the Arnold model).

He walks to the end of the row.  There is one empty rack.
He faces the terminator in the next rack.  Its eyes are
closed.
John seems distant as he studies that face.
Fuentes enters the chamber, pushing past the technicians.
Calls for his leader in the darkness.

					FUENTES
		John?... John?...

TIGHT ON CONNOR, his face pensive as Fuentes calls his
name.  Fuentes voice slowly dissolves to ANOTHER VOICE.  A
woman's.  Echoing as though from a great distance...

								   CUT TO:

This audio transition takes us directly to the scene of
young John Connor in the Voights' garage in the present-
day.  The use of a sound dissolve between the two voices
calling John's name while holding a tight shot on his face
works as a flashback-style transition to bridge the future
and the present.

----------------------------------------------------------

				  SARAH'S E.C.T.

					5/10/90

In the original 5/10/90 draft, the transition from future
to present occurred through adult John's memory of his
childhood, and both young John and Sarah are established
in their respective environments before the arrival of the
terminators.  The transition from Sarah at the hospital to
the scenes of the arriving terminators was accomplished
through the following scene.

INT.  HOSPITAL CORRIDOR

Sarah, strait-jacketed and strapped onto a GURNEY, is
being wheeled down the corridor by Douglas and the other
orderlies.  Silberman is right behind her with the
interns.  Sarah's eyes are full of suppressed rage as she
stares up and back at him.

					SILBERMAN
				(to the interns)
		What's fascinating about her case is
		that the architecture of the
		delusion--

					SARAH
		Don't talk about me like I'm not
		here.  I'm right goddamn here!

					SILBERMAN
		We know where you are, Sarah...
				(continuing to the
				 interns)
		... the delusion seems to have begun
		with the boyfriend and then been
		adopted by the patient.  He believed
		he was a soldier from the next
		century, sent to protect her from a
		killer machine called a "terminator".

Frustrated, Sarah begins struggling against her
restraints.  Douglas, blocking the action from the
doctors, casually smacks her solar plexus with his baton.
Sarah gasps for air.  Douglas winks at her.

					SILBERMAN
		You see, it's all about machines,
		for her.  We're seeing more and more
		of this new syndrome, a sort of
		acute phobic reaction to technology.
		It's a defensive response to the
		dehumanization of relationships in a
		high-tech world.

They sweep through a set of double doors.  The doors swing
closed into CLOSEUP.  Big block letters stenciled across
them read:
ELECTRO-CONVULSIVE THERAPY
Yes, they still do this shit to people.

INT.  E.C.T. ROOM

Sarah's eyes go wide, clocking the sign on the door as she
is wheeled in to a room full of ominous machines.  Aging
shock therapy equipment.

					SILBERMAN
		Sarah, today we're going to be
		trying ECT... electro-convulsive
		therapy--

					SARAH
		No!  Don't do this.  Okay, look,
		Silberman -- hey!  Don't put that --
		HEY!

She struggles vainly against the gurney straps as a NURSE
tapes electrodes to her head.  Silberman leans down to
Sarah.  The interns and the orderlies watch from near the
door.

					SILBERMAN
		Now relax, we've found this very
		helpful with problems like yours.
		Such as this feeling that you're
		being persecuted--

					SARAH
		I'm not being persecuted, you
		fucking moron!  I'm not a threat to
		them anymore.  I told you.  It's my
		son who's the target!

Silberman sighs.  They finish placing the electrodes on
her temples.

					SARAH
		You've got to let me go so I can
		protect him!  He's naked if they
		come for him now!  Please!  Why
		won't you listen?  You know how
		important this is!

The nurse sets the dials on the machine.  Sarah starts to
thrash now, becoming irrational.  Starts shrieking at
everyone in the room.  She sounds exactly like what they
say she is -- a whacko.

					SARAH
		Goddamnit.  Let me go!!  I'll kill
		you, FUCKER!!

She screams incoherently as they jam the rubber biscuit
down between her teeth so she won't bite through her
tongue when the voltage jumpstarts her brain.  Silberman
is smooth and cheerful as he turns to the interns.

					SILBERMAN
		ECT is coming back into favor lately,
		and we've had good results with it.
		It looks worse than it is.  As soon
		as the current hits her brain, she's
		out.  It's a bit like punching the
		restart button on a computer when
		the program crashes.

He nods to the nurse and the current blasts through
Sarah's brain, locking every muscle in her body into a
painful contortion.  It triggers an epilepsy-like seizure
and she bucks and flops on the gurney.

					SILBERMAN
		She's not feeling anything right now.

TIGHT ON SARAH'S FACE, contorted, jerking spasmodically.
Then...

STROBOSCOPIC FLASH CUTS speeding up in rhythm, images
coming at us like a roaring freight-train.

TERMINATOR'S STEEL HAND lunging for her in the punch
press.
A CHROME SKULL, eyes burning red, a demon after her soul.
STEEL FINGERS closing on her throat.  Then...
SARAH'S FINGERS groping endlessly for the switch to the
press.  Then...

TERMINATOR'S RED EYES filling frame.  Lightning arcing all
around as the press crushes the hideous machine.  But even
as it dies it has her by the throat.  Even now, long after
it's dead, it still has her by the throat.  The lightning
gets brighter and brighter... WHITING OUT FRAME.

								   CUT TO:

This ending lightning and whiteout then cuts directly to
the lightning arcing outside the trucker bar at night,
heralding the arrival of the terminator through time.  the
stroboscopic flash cuts in the moments immediately
preceding this transition were to be shots from the climax
of the first film, as Sarah in the throes of her
electroshock therapy relives the arcing destruction of the
first terminator, a nightmare that is still ever-present
in her mend.

----------------------------------------------------------

				  MISSILE DREAM

					9/10/90

Sarah's second nightmare, which occurs at Salceda's camp,
was originally more differentiated from the first
nightmare she has while at Pescadero.  While the essence
of the dream and its visceral intent remained intact in
the final film -- including her vision of the innocent
waitress version of herself and her helplessness against
the impending Judgment Day -- the Missile Dream scene
from 9/10/90 draft was only a different version on the
same theme and would have been a complex visual effects
scene to produce, involving bluescreen, many extras,
and very large-scale miniatures.  The luxury of telling
the same nightmare using different imagery was not an
affordable one, either financially or, in the end,
narratively.

SARAH'S HEAD droops.  She closes her eyes.

TIGHT ON small children playing.  Different ones.
Wider now, to reveal a playground in a park.  Very
idyllic.  A dream playground, crowded with laughing kids
playing on swings, slides, and a jungle gym.  It could be
the playground we saw melted and frozen in the post-
nuclear desolation of 2029.  But here the grass is vibrant
green and the sun is shining.

Sarah, short-haired, looking drab and paramilitary, stands
outside the playground.  An outsider.  Her fingers are
hooked in a chain-linked fence and she is staring through
the fence at the young mothers playing with their kids.  A
grim-faced harbinger.

Some girls play skip-rope.  Their sing-song chant weaves
through the random burbling laughter of the kids.  One of
the young mothers walks her two-year-old son by the hands.
She is wearing a pink waitress uniform.  She turns to us,
laughing.
It is Sarah.  Beautiful.  Radiant.  Sarah from another
life, uncontaminated by the dark future.  She glances at
the strange woman beyond the fence.

Grim-faced Sarah presses against the fence.  She starts
shouting at them in SLOW MOTION.  No sound comes out of
her mouth.  She grabs the fence in frustration, shaking
it.  Screaming soundlessly.
Waitress Sarah's smile falls.  Then returns as her little
boy throws some sand at her.  She laughs, turning away, as
if the woman at the fence were a shadow, a trick of light.

Behind her the earth splits open.
In a wide shot we see everyone stop and stare as the
ground heaves upward all around them.  As far as the eye
can see the monstrous caps of missile silos are hinging
up, ripping up through the grass and soil.  Now the
mothers are screaming, pulling their children to them...
but it is too late to run.  The silo caps open, rows of
them marching to the horizon.  As if a tranquil reality
has split open to reveal another horrible reality which
has always been there, hidden beneath it.

Thunder shakes the earth.  We see the obscene heads of the
missiles thrusting up out of the holes in the ground.
Walls of fire erupt as the fat cylinders rise like
awakened monsters from the earth.

Sarah stares in numb horror as the tail-nozzles clear the
silo rims, and a wall of flame roars out, devouring the
cowering mothers and children.  Incinerating them and
rolling on, toward her.
She screams and we hear it now, shrill and terrifying,
mixing with the thunder as the flames wrap around her,
blasting her apart and she...

Wakes up.

----------------------------------------------------------

				 SALCEDA'S DEATH

					9/10/90

Salceda's Death scene from 9/10/90 draft was scheduled
but never filmed due to both scheduling and cost
considerations; scheduled for the first week of principal
photography, the scene would have involved a great number
of mechanical makeup and pyrotechnic effects, not to
mention a fair number of complicated visual effects plates
for computer graphics shots.  Since its only narrative
purpose was to show how the T-1000 follows them to Dyson's
house and a number of the T-1000 gags in the scene were
reprised more effectively elsewhere, it was deemed
redundant to the plot and unnecessarily complicated for
the first week of shooting.

EXT.  SALCEDA'S CAMP - NIGHT

SALCEDA'S DOG, teeth bared, barks a furious warning.  The
SOUND of machine gun fire erupts drowning him out.
YOLANDA, clutching a .45 Officer's Colt, sweeps Paco and
Juanita up in her arms and races away.

SALCEDA is firing an MP5K on full auto, its strobing
barrel flash lighting up the camp.  CAMERA PUSHING IN ON
HIM AS...

THE T-1000 calmly walks toward him, unbothered by the
stream of bullets.  Unhurried.  Salceda, amazed, is
backing toward his truck, and the stacks of crated
grenades and ammo boxes beside it.
The T-1000 keeps coming.  Steps right up to Salceda,
knocks the weapon away and slams him to the ground.

Salceda sprawls against one of the open wooden crates.
T-1000 kneels before him.  Points its finger.  THUNK.
Salceda screams, pinned to the crate by a two-foot long
steel needle through his left lung.

					T-1000
		Where is John Connor?

					SALCEDA
		John who?

THUNK!!  Another needle slams through him.  Salceda
struggles to breath against the excruciating pain.

					T-1000
				(almost soothingly)
		I know this hurts.  Where is John
		Connor?

Salceda's hand gropes in the open crate of grenades behind
him.  He clutches one.  Then apparently ready to cooperate
he clutches T-1000's shoulder and struggles to pull
himself closer, up along the impaling spikes.

Behind the T-1000's neck, Salceda pulls the grenade's pin
with his free hand.  The spoon flies off... CLINK.

					SALCEDA
		FUCK YOU!!

The truck, Salceda, and the T-1000 vanish in a MASSIVE
EXPLOSION as the grenade sets off the other munitions.  A
huge ball of fire ascends into the night.

YOLANDA, huddled with her children, the .45 held before
her in a combat grip, screams as--

A CHROME HEAD rolls out of the inferno and comes to rest
in the dirt, the liquid metal mouth gulping like a gaffed
fish.
A figure appears, silhouetted by the fire... or most of a
figure.

We TRACK WITH the polished black cop shoes toward the head
lying in the dirt.  A hand enters the frame.  The head
dissolves and fuses with the hand, like two blobs of
solder running together.

She stares in shock at the thing approaching.  She slowly
lowers the useless pistol.  The T-1000 walks right up to
her.  It reaches down and picks up little Juanita.  Gives
her a friendly smile.

					T-1000
		Do you know where John Connor is?

The child mutely shakes her head no.  T-1000 nods,
unperturbed.  Points toward the road.  Juanita follows
with her eyes.

					T-1000
		When they reached the main road, did
		they go north...
				(indicating)
		... or south?

She points north.  T-1000 smiles.  Sets her down,
unharmed.

					T-1000
		Thank you for your cooperation.

With that, the T-1000 turns and strides to its motorcycle
parked a few yards away.  Yolanda and her children
silently watch as the Cop from Hell climbs onto the bike
and roars off into the night.

								   CUT TO:

The reabsorption of T-1000's gulping head was one of the
favorite moments that was reluctantly lost when the scene
was cut; it served no narrative purpose and was merely a
variation on the reabsorption of the chrome hook hand,
just as the skewering of Salceda is a less involving take
on the skewering of Sarah at the steel mill later on.  In
a very telling moment at the end of this scene, T-1000
demonstrates the subtlety with which it goes about its
mission, shifting gears from the brutal interrogation of
Salceda to the gentle questioning of Yolanda and the kids.

----------------------------------------------------------

				   GANT RANCH

					7/18/90

The story action in the Salceda Camp scene was originally
part of a much longer and drawn-out portion of the film in
the 7/18/90 draft, and took place at the mercenary ranch
of Travis Gant, the "crazy ex-Green Beret" John refers to
in the final film.  Although there was a good deal more
character exposition and development of the "fathers"
theme -- including the discussion of a prior romantic
relationship between Sarah and Gant -- the scene slowed
the pacing of the narrative down considerably and was
ultimately streamlined and simplified into the Salceda's
Camp scene.  It is interesting to compare the two scenes
side by side to note the condensation of narrative and the
retention of the essence of the story despite the scaling-
down of its scope.  Salceda appears in this version as
merely one of Gant's men.

EXT.  DIRT ROAD - DAY

The desolate hills southwest of Brawley.
TERMINATOR steers the pickup along a narrow dirt road
which winds precariously through the hills.  It is
designed to discourage casual visitors.

They approach a heavy metal gate which blocks the road.
It is flanked on both sides by a high chain-link fence
topped with razor-wire.  There is no call box or phone.
Only a NO TRESPASSING sign with a bunch of dried
rattlesnake heads decorating it, their jaws wide, fangs
gleaming.

					SARAH
		Don't get out.  They saw us coming
		three miles back.

On cue, a jeep rounds the bend beyond the gate and roars
toward them.  They hear a thundering whop-whop of rotors
and a Vietnam-era Huey roars over the hill next to them
and hovers overhead, blasting them with its rotor wash.
Three men dismount from the jeep and walk forward.  One
carries a shotgun, the other two M-16s.  Above them, in
the door of the Huey, another guy has an AK-47 trained on
them.
Terminator steps out with the shotgun.

Sarah gets out and goes to the gate, waiting for the
sentries to reach her.  She speaks to the lead man,
SALCEDA, through the gate in perfect, almost unaccented
Spanish.

					SARAH
				(subtitled)
		Tell Gant I'm here.

Salceda, a Mexican wearing jeans, cowboy boots, and a flak
vest, grins at her.

					SALCEDA
				(Spanish/subtitled)
		He doesn't want to see you.

					SARAH
		Just tell him, pendejo.  And tell
		him I have John with me.

The sentry speaks into a walkie-talkie.  We hear her name
mentioned, but not much else.
John waits at the truck with Terminator.

					JOHN
		This place is run by a guy named
		Travis Gant.  An ex-Green Beret.  A
		total wild man... he's got
		connections all over Mexico and
		Central America.

The sentry is nodding, holding the walkie up to his ear.
We don't hear the other end of the conversation over the
helicopter.  He looks at Sarah and shrugs.  The sentries
open the gate, waving the chopper off.

					SALCEDA
				(to Terminator)
		Put the shotgun back in the truck.

Sarah nods to him to comply.

					SALCEDA
		You ride with me.  Enrique will
		bring your truck.

One of the sentries walks past them to their truck as they
move to Salceda's jeep.

								   CUT TO:

EXT.  DIRT ROAD

IN THE JEEP, bumping along the winding road.  Sarah, John,
and Terminator jammed in the back, holding onto a roll
bar.

					JOHN
		What makes you think he'll help us?

					SARAH
		He'll help us.

					JOHN
				(to Terminator)
		The last time Gant and Sarah were in
		the same room he was in a drunken
		rage and coming after her with a
		sheepskinning knife.

					TERMINATOR
		Why?

					SARAH
		We were breaking up at the time.

EXT.  GANT'S RANCH/COMPOUND - DAY

The jeep passes through an arched stone gate and enters
the courtyard of Gant's run-down hacienda.  The place
might have been nice once, but it's a dump now.  A lot of
military-surplus jeeps and other vehicles are parked
around, and we see surveillance cameras, razor wire, and
other styling touches which make the place look more like
a military compound than a ranch.

There are more men, mostly Hispanic.  A few white guys.
Dress varies from biker denims to military fatigues.
There are women, children running, and dogs.

Terminator, John and Sarah get out of the jeep.
The dogs do not dig Terminator at all.  They are barking
and whining, slinking around, keeping their distance.

Two men come out of the main house, one striding ahead of
the other.  In the lead is TRAVIS GANT, followed by his
first lieutenant, INGRAM.  Gant is in his late thirties,
lean and muscular.  He wears combat boots and cammo pants,
no shirt, a denim vest, and a greasy bandana rolled into a
headband.  He is tight lipped, no nonsense, and even
though his hair has grown out and he only shaves every
other day, his bearing is utterly military... no fat, no
nonsense, no wasted movement.  His eyes are concealed by
dark aviator-style shades, and he wears a Detonics custom
.45 holstered at his hip.

Ingram is younger, an almost baby-faced ex-Marine punk
with a bad attitude.  Gant walks up to Sarah, glancing
once warily at Terminator, and plants himself right in
front of her.

					GANT
		Man, you are one fuckin' section-
		eight crazy fucking bitch, coming
		here, you know that?
				(changing tone)
		Hi John, long time.

					JOHN
		Hi, Travis.

Gant turns back to Sarah, talking lower.  Very tense.
He leans close to her, so no one else in the compound can
hear them.

					GANT
		Your picture's all over the TV, you
		know that?  You and your psycho
		buddy, there.  Man I do NOT need
		this!  I got a business to run.  I
		can't afford any heat up here.

					SARAH
		So deal to us and we're on our way.

					GANT
		What do you need?

					SARAH
		Guns... heavy stuff.  Explosives...
		and com gear, travel documents.  And
		I need you to get us across the
		ditch and arrange a trip south.
		Costa Rica.  Peru.  Whatever you can
		set up.

					GANT
		How about the fillings out of my
		fucking teeth?!  Man, you are
		unbelievable!

John sees them standing close together and says to
Terminator...

					JOHN
		This is going better than I thought
		it would.

ON SARAH AND GANT, TIGHT.

					GANT
		I can't believe you had the balls to
		come back here.  And dragging that
		poor kid along.  You still feeding
		him all that crazy shit about a
		nuclear war and how he's gonna be
		the savior of all mankind?

					SARAH
		He is.

					GANT
		Still a goddamn loony tune.  You
		always were.  A good fuck, but a
		loony tune.  Just get out of here,
		Sarah.

					SARAH
		I need your help, Gant.

					GANT
		Forget it.  When the Ice Capades
		open in Hell, you call me.

Gant turns to walk away, yelling to Ingram and the others.

					GANT
		Get her out of here!

					SARAH
		Wait!

Gant pauses.  She gestures to Terminator to walk forward.
Ingram and the sentries raise their weapons.

					SARAH
		Tell him what you are.

					TERMINATOR
		Series 800 terminator.  Model 101.
		Cyborg tactical infiltrator.

					GANT
		Oh my God.  A killing machine from
		the future.  Watch out, guys.

Gant snorts, shaking his head.  Looks between Terminator
and Sarah like they are a sorry pair of losers.

					GANT
		Man, you two deserve each other.

					SARAH
				(to Gant)
		Give me your .45.  I need to show
		you something.

Gant looks at her warily.  But there are ten of his people
around with automatic weapons, so he unholsters the pistol
and hands it to her.  Sarah shows it to Terminator.

					SARAH
		Can I shoot you in the head with
		this?

					TERMINATOR
		If it will help.

					SARAH
		Turn around.

He does and she levels the pistol in a two-hand grip at
the back of his head, point blank.  Sarah clicks off the
safety.  Gant can't believe what he's seeing here.  She's
really going to do it...

					GANT
		Bullshit!!

POW!  POW!
Terminator's head jerks a little with each hit.  John
winces.  The cyborg turns to them, calm and unhurt.

					TERMINATOR
		No problemo.

Gant just stares, his mouth hanging open.  He slowly goes
up to Terminator.  Gets right up to his face.  He looks
right into the eyes.  Touches the skin of the cyborg's
cheek.
Walks slowly behind him, not knowing what he expects to
see.
It all comes crashing in on him.  We see it in his face.
He believes.  Gant turns to Sarah.

					GANT
				(weakly)
		Come inside.

John winks at Terminator.  Gives him a BIG THUMBS UP.
Terminator imitates the gesture, then tries a wink.  It
needs work.

INT.  GANT'S HACIENDA - DAY

Gant leads them into the kitchen, yelling to the house in
general.

					GANT
		Yolanda?!  We got company!

He is in shock, going to one cupboard then another, then
back to the first.  His body moving while his brain reels.

					GANT
		Where's the fucking tequila?

He pulls a bottle out of the cupboard and grabs more
glasses than he can carry, gets them to the table.  Sarah
helps him.
A WOMAN comes to the doorway... Hispanic, about 25, and
seven months pregnant.  She looks stonily at the scene,
wary of the strangers.  A two-year-old boy toddles up
behind her, hand jammed in his mouth.

					GANT
		That's Yolanda.  Mrs. Gant.
				(he arches his
				 eyebrow at Sarah)
		Go figure, huh?

					JOHN
				(Spanish/subtitled)
		Hi.  Nice to meet you.  I'm John,
		this is Sarah, and this is--
				(indicating
				 Terminator)
		Uh... my uncle.  Bob.  Uncle Bob.

Yolanda smiles.  John has broken the ice.  He has a way of
controlling situations, understanding people.
Gant is ripping the cap off the tequila bottle.  The two-
year-old toddles to him and grabs his cammo pants, sliming
them with drool.
Terminator watches the tiny kid, fascinated.  What is it?

					GANT
		And this is Paco.  Honey, take
		Pacolito.  Thanks, baby.

She takes the child and retreats.  Wife as domestic slave.
After Sarah, the guy obviously wanted somebody more tame.
Gant sits heavily at the table, moving like the breath is
knocked out of him.  He pours himself a tall shot and
downs it in one gulp.

					GANT
		So... everything you always said.
		The war... the future... it's all
		real?

He looks at Terminator, who nods "yes".
Gant grabs the other glasses, pouring while he talks.

					GANT
		Wheww!  Damn.  I feel like I been
		kneed in the balls here.  This is
		big.
				(to Terminator)
		Drink?

Terminator gestures "no" at the proffered glass.
Gant realizes his mistake.  This cyborg shit takes getting
used to.

					GANT
		Yeah, right.

Sarah pours for herself.  A straight shooter.  She tosses
it back.

					SARAH
		I tried to tell you.

					GANT
		I know.  You did.  Many times.

John signals to Terminator "let's go".  He wants to leave
Sarah and Travis alone to work this out.  As always, his
instincts are solid.  He takes Terminator by the sleeve of
his jacket and they drift away.  John calls from the front
door...

					JOHN
		Any place I shouldn't go?

					GANT
		Su casa, John.  You know that.
		Anything I got's yours.

EXT.  MAIN HOUSE

Terminator and John walk out on the porch.  Ingram,
standing just outside the door, eyes them coldly.  He has
heard Gant's shouted carte-blanche but he doesn't like it.
As they walk down the steps Terminator looks at John...

					TERMINATOR
		Uncle Bob?

INT.  HOUSE

Gant and Sarah at the kitchen table.  He takes off his
dark glasses and his eyes are somehow appealing, not hard
like we might have expected.

					GANT
		When you first laid that shit on me,
		about John, I thought you were
		section-eight for sure.  Psycho
		waitress that thinks her kid's
		fucking Napoleon.

					SARAH
				(she smiles)
		You didn't exactly throw us out.

					GANT
		Naw.  I start cuttin' people off
		just cause they're crazy an' I'd
		lose all my friends.  Now I see why
		you were always serious as a heart
		attack.  Carrying that kind of shit
		around, by yourself, year after
		year.  I'm impressed kid.

								   CUT TO:

EXT.  COMPOUND

John and Terminator walking across the compound.
John calls to some guys he knows, yelling in fluent
Spanish.
They wave to him.

					TERMINATOR
		How long did you live here?

					JOHN
		Four years.  But we spent a lot of
		time in Nicaragua, Costa Rica...
		places like that.  Wherever Travis
		had business.  I thought this was
		how people lived.  Like everybody
		grew up doing weapons training.
		Riding around in helicopters.
		Learning how to blow shit up.

					TERMINATOR
		Gant taught you?

					JOHN
		My mom and him, yeah.  When she got
		busted I got put in a regular
		school.  The other kids thought I
		was a little weird.

INT.  HOUSE/ KITCHEN

Gant stares at her, thinking back.  It's one of those
moments where someone is utterly familiar and yet somehow
suddenly a total stranger.

					GANT
		Yeah... now I look back I can see
		your whole plan.  Find some guy that
		knows weapons and tactics, some dumb
		bastard, and get him to teach you
		how to run a military operation...
		so you could pass it on when the kid
		was old enough.  Brilliant.  And I
		was the dumb bastard.

					SARAH
		Travis...

					GANT
		Everything had a purpose.  Coming on
		to me, getting me to teach you, take
		you out on runs.  Christ, I didn't
		care.  Long's you wrapped them legs
		around me, I'd a done anything.
		Damn, you didn't give one shit for
		me really, did you?

In her expression, her contained sadness, we see that she
did not.

					SARAH
		I'm sorry, Travis.

					GANT
		You took me for a ride, got what you
		needed, and got off.

We can see his pain.  He thought they had something.  Even
though it ended badly, he remembered good moments.  His
new knowledge has led to a bitter re-evaluation.  Now he
knows those moments were hollow even then.

					SARAH
		I did what I had to do.

					GANT
		Yeah.  I guess you did.  You wanna
		know what's crazy about it?

					SARAH
		What?

He pours again, for both of them.  Tall.

					GANT
		You did it exactly right.  You knew
		what you had to do and you did it.
		You got nerves of fucking stainless
		steel, baby.  I'm proud of ya.  I
		really mean that.

They lock eyes... a moment of connection.
She is forgiven, although it is a painful forgiveness.
He grins at her, suddenly, a crazy kamikaze grin.
Clinks her glass.

					GANT
		To the future!  Fuck it if it can't
		take a joke!  Right?

He tosses back the tequila.

EXT.  COMPOUND

John and Terminator pass some stripped Hueys, rusting on
blocks.  The functional Huey sits on the grass beyond.
Salceda is supervising the unloading of some crates from
the chopper.

					JOHN
		It's sad, me mom and Travis.  She
		won't let anybody take the place of
		my real dad.

					TERMINATOR
		Kyle Reese.

					JOHN
		Yeah.  He's dead.
				(brightening
				 suddenly)
		Hey!  Did you ever meet him?  Up in
		the future, I mean.

					TERMINATOR
		No.  Sorry.

John shrugs.  He thinks he's being casual, but his longing
for some kind of parental connection is obvious.

					JOHN
		I wish I coulda met him.  I guess I
		will, when I'm older, cause I send
		him back through time and all.  He
		hasn't even been born yet.  Man, it
		messes with your head.

					TERMINATOR
				(remembering the
				 phrase)
		It messes with your head.

					JOHN
		Yeah.  My mom and him were only
		together for one night, but she
		talks about him every day.  She
		still loves him, I guess.  I see her
		crying sometimes.  She denies it
		totally, of course.  Says she got
		something in her eye.

They reach a bunker-like concrete building.  There is a
combination lock on the heavy steel door, like a bank
vault.  John starts twiddling the dial on the lock.

					TERMINATOR
		Why do you cry?

					JOHN
		Left 3 to 48.
				(looking up)
		You mean people?  I don't know.  We
		just cry.  You know.  When it hurts.
		Right 2 to 90.

					TERMINATOR
		Pain causes it?

					JOHN
		Uh-unh, no, pain is like a... like
		an alarm that tells you when there's
		damage.  This is different... And
		left one to 20.  It's when there's
		nothing wrong with you but you hurt
		anyway.  Because you love somebody,
		and they're gone or whatever.  You
		get it?

					TERMINATOR
		No.

John completes the combination and tries the latch.  It
unlocks with a CLUNK.

					JOHN
		He should change this combination.

INT.  ARMORY

John precedes Terminator into Gant's armory.  A long
concrete room lined with every imaginable kind of weapon.
Racks of rifles, pistols, rocket launchers, mortars, RPGs,
radio gear.  At the far end boxes containing ammo,
grenades etc. are stacked to the ceiling.  Terminator
gets real alert.  Scanning the walls, wondering where to
begin.

					TERMINATOR
		Radical.

					JOHN
		Yeah.  I thought you'd like this
		place.

Terminator picks up a MAC 10 machine pistol.  Slaps in a
magazine.
John grabs an AK-47 and racks the bolt with a practiced
action.  Inspects the receiver for wear.  Doesn't like
what he sees.  Puts it back.  His movements are efficient.
Professional.  Uninterested.

					JOHN
		Hey, do you feel any different yet?
		Like you're learning stuff?

					TERMINATOR
		I don't know.  I feel the same.

					JOHN
		Have you figured out yet why you
		can't go around killing people?

Terminator is still stumped.  He takes a shot in the dark.

					TERMINATOR
		Because it hurts them?

					JOHN
		Nooo.  Because it hurts the people
		who love them.  Get it?  That's the
		value of human life... we have
		feelings, people love each other.
				(a beat, then--)
		Are you afraid of dying?

Terminator pauses a second.  The thought never occurred to
him.  He searches his mind for the answer...

					TERMINATOR
		No.

Terminator slings the M-79 and starts looking for the
grenades.
John is idly spinning a Sig Saur 9mm pistol on his
finger... backwards and forwards like Bat Masterson.

					JOHN
		See, that's the problem.  You don't
		care if you live or die, and so you
		think everybody's like that.

					TERMINATOR
		I have to stay functional until my
		mission is complete.  Then it
		doesn't matter.

John picks up a 2nd generation Starlite scope.  Switches
it on.  Twiddles the gain.  Looks through it.

					JOHN
		Yeah.  I have to stay functional
		too.
				(sing songy)
		"I'm too important".
				(he puts the scope
				 down)
		She won't even let me play football.
		It's a drag.

EXT.  COMPOUND - LATER - DAY

Sarah has changed.  Boots, black fatigue pants, T-shirt.
Night patrol jacket.  Shades.  She looks hard.  She and
John have their weapons and supply selections laid out for
cleaning and packing.
Maps, radios, documents, explosives, detonators... just
the basics.
Gant strides up.

					GANT
		It's set.  Soon as it's dark we'll
		cross the ditch in the Huey, and
		I've got a Citation meeting us at
		that strip in San Lupe.

					SARAH
		Thanks.

Sarah eyes the preparations one last time and walks away.

								   CUT TO:

INT.  T-1000'S POLICE CRUISER - DAY

The T-1000 sits as before.  Monitoring the police radio.
Listening to Sarah's tapes.  Scanning John's letters and
papers.

					SARAH (V.O.)
		... if we're ever separated, go
		directly to Gant's ranch.  Travis
		will take care of you until I get
		there...

T-1000 stops scanning the letter in its hand.  It zeros in
on the sentence it just heard.  Stops the cassette
recorder.  Reaches to the computer terminal on the dash.
Types "Travis Gant" with a KNOWN ACQUAINTANCES cross-
reference to "Sarah Connor".

TIGHT ON THE COMPUTER SCREEN.  Gant's vital statistics
come up.  Date of Birth.  License.  Number of arrests.
And an address out in Imperial Valley, near the Mexican
border.

TIGHT ON T-1000 staring at the screen.
Suddenly, the barrel of a REVOLVER appears through the
open window beside it.  It's aiming right at its head.
The owner is a helmeted C.H.P. OFFICER.

					CHP
		Freeze!  Police!

The T-1000 calmly complies.

ANGLE ON CRUISER from a few yards away.  The motorcycle
cop stands outside the cruiser's window, aiming his
revolver.  We see his motorcycle parked off to the side of
the empty road.

A SECOND MOTORCYCLE COP pulls into shot, rolling into
CLOSEUP.
He's wearing a headset/microphone under his helmet.  We
hear him calling in the report.

					2ND CHP
		Roger, that's a positive I.D. on
		the vehicle.  Suspect is in custody.

								   CUT TO:

EXT.  HIGHWAY - MINUTES LATER - DAY

The T-1000 thunders along on a CHP Kawasaki 1100, doing
about a hundred and twenty.  PAN WITH IT until it recedes
toward the horizon.

								   CUT TO:

EXT.  GANT'S RANCH/COMPOUND - DAY

Sarah seems to have the weight of the whole world on her
shoulders.  She sits at a picnic table.  Draws her boot
knife.

Starts to carve the words... "There is no--"

NOT FAR AWAY, JOHN is field-stripping and cleaning
weapons, packing for the trip.

UP ON THE HUEY NEARBY, Gant and Terminator are flight-
checking the aircraft, Gant covered with grease, changing
a part in the rotor-head.  Terminator helps him install
the component.

					GANT
		So you're supposed to stay with the
		kid forever, and teach him, protect
		him, and keep him out of trouble?

					TERMINATOR
		Correct.

					GANT
		Buddy, sounds like you just got
		yourself elected father.

					TERMINATOR
		Father?

					GANT
		Women'll do that.

					TERMINATOR
		I'm not even human.

					GANT
		No, it's fucking brilliant.  Think
		about it.  She knows you'll never
		stop... that you'll always be there.
		And you'll never hurt the kid.
		You'll never shout at him, never get
		drunk and hit him.  Never say you
		can't spend time with him 'cause
		you're too busy.  And you'd die to
		protect him.  You're the ultimate
		parent.

					TERMINATOR
		You're better suited.  The boy likes
		you.

					GANT
		Naw.  I ain't the guy.  Forget it.
		She wrote me off a long time ago.
		Too many bad habits.

Gant laughs and takes a long pull from the tequila bottle.
He looks at Terminator, the solemn cyborg from the future.

					GANT
		Anyway, considering what's ahead for
		that kid, you're a better role
		model... God help him.

HOLD ON Terminator, thinking about what's been said.

					TERMINATOR
		You are a father.  Do you have any
		advice?

					GANT
		Talk about the blind leading the
		blind.  My advice?  Lighten up --
		the kid's world is so goddamn grim
		-- smile once in a while.

					TERMINATOR
		Smile?

					GANT
		Yeah.  Smile.  You know.
				(he whistles to one
				 of his men)
		Hey, Enrique... your sister still
		sucking off donkeys in Tijuana?

					ENRIQUE
				(with a shit-eating
				 grin)
		No man, she's cutting down.  Your
		mother's taking all the business.

					GANT
		See.  That's a smile.

TERMINATOR POV (DIGITIZED) The real-time image continues
while a replay of Enrique grinning runs in a window.  It
expands, so that Enrique's mouth fills the window.
Replays again in slow motion.  A vector-graphic of lips
smiling appears, along with an array of symbolic data.

Terminator tries it.  The result is dismal.  A rictus-like
curling up of the lips.  Terminator's next effort is a
marginal improvement.

					GANT
		I don't know, maybe you could
		practice in front of a mirror or
		something.

ON SARAH, AT THE TABLE, as she looks up from her carving,
thinking.  She watches some kids playing in a sprinkler
nearby.
They are children of some of Gant's men... shrieking as
the cold water hits them and loving it.

Sarah sees Yolanda walking Pacolito by the hands.
Backlit, stylized.  Carefree, despite the para-military
setting.
She looks over at John, cleaning guns... sees the future.

ANGLE ON kids playing.

TIGHT ON John inserting a part.

SARAH leans back against a tree trunk.  Closes her eyes.

TIGHT ON small children playing.  Different ones.
Wider now, to reveal a playground in a park.  Very
idyllic.  A dream playground, crowded with laughing kids
playing on swings, slides, and a jungle gym.  It could be
the playground we saw melted and frozen in the post-
nuclear desolation of 2029.  But here the grass is vibrant
green and the sun is shining.

Sarah, short-haired, looking drab and paramilitary, stands
outside the playground.  An outsider.  Her fingers are
hooked in a chain-link fence and she is staring through
the fence at the young mothers playing with their kids.  A
grim-faced harbinger.

Some girls play skip-rope.  Their sing-song chant weaves
through the random burbling laughter of the kids.  One of
the young mothers walks her two-year-old son by the hands.
She is wearing a pink waitress uniform.  She turns to us,
laughing.
It is Sarah.  Beautiful.  Radiant.  Sarah from another
life, uncontaminated by the dark future.  She glances at
the strange woman beyond the fence.

Grim-faced Sarah presses against the fence.  She starts
shouting at them in SLOW MOTION.  No sound comes out of
her mouth.  She grabs the fence in frustration, shaking
it.  Screaming soundlessly.
Waitress Sarah's smile falls.  Then returns as her little
boy throws some sand at her.  She laughs, turning away, as
if the woman at the fence were a shadow, a trick of light.

Behind her the earth splits open.
In a wide shot we see everyone stop and stare as the
ground heaves upward all around them.  As far as the eye
can see the monstrous caps of missile silos are hinging
up, ripping up through the grass and soil.  Now the
mothers are screaming, pulling their children to them...
but it is too late to run.  The silo caps open, rows of
them marching to the horizon.  As if a tranquil reality
has split open to reveal another horrible reality which
has always been there, hidden beneath it.

Thunder shakes the earth.  We see the obscene heads of the
missiles thrusting up out of the holes in the ground.
Walls of fire erupt as the fat cylinders rise like
awakened monsters from the earth.

Sarah stares in numb horror as the tail-nozzles clear the
silo rims, and a wall of flame roars out, devouring the
cowering mothers and children.  Incinerating them and
rolling on, toward her.
She screams and we hear it now, shrill and terrifying,
mixing with the thunder as the flames wrap around her,
blasting her apart and she...

Wakes up.
All is quiet and normal.  The children are still running
through the sprinkler nearby.  Less than fifteen minutes
have gone by.

Bathed in sweat, Sarah sits hunched over the table.  Every
muscle is shaking.  She is gasping.
Sarah struggles to breathe, running her hand through her
short hair which is spiky with sweat.  She can escape from
the hospital, but she can't escape from the demon which
haunts her.

She looks down at the words she has carved on the table,
amid the scrawled hearts and bird-droppings.  They are
words Kyle Reese told her, which John Connor made him
memorize before they came across time.  They are:
"There is no fate but what we make."

Something changes in her eyes.
She slams her knife in the table top, embedding it deeply
in the words.  Then gets up suddenly and we--

								   CUT TO:

INT.  ARMORY

The door opens and Sarah walks in out of the afternoon
sun.

SERIES OF TIGHT SHOTS:

A big FN FAL .308 rifle is snatched from a rack.
A laser-designator is clipped onto the barrel.
A tritium-reticle night-scope is snapped into place.
Long .308 bullets are rammed one by one into a magazine.

TIGHT ON SARAH, looking at the last bullet.  She pushes it
down into the magazine with her thumb.  Sitting on top, it
will be the first one fired.  A 20 cent bullet which could
save 3 billion lives.
She slaps the magazine into the rifle and chambers the
first round.
Slinging the heavy weapon over her shoulder she exits.

LONG LENS on Sarah walking toward us.  In the sunlight
now, she pulls a pair of dark glasses from her jacket and
puts them on.  In her night-patrol fatigue pants, boots
and glasses she is all business.
She strides across the compound with grim purpose.
Her face is an impassive mask, her lips set.  She has
become a terminator.

JOHN LOOKS UP from his work in time to see Sarah throw the
rifle into the back seat of a hard-top jeep, jump in and
start it.  She slams it in gear.

GANT AND TERMINATOR look up as the jeep brakes hard
alongside the Huey.  They are up on top of the cowl,
adjusting the cyclic linkage.

Sarah roars up in the jeep.  She yells to them without
getting out.

					SARAH
		Fly John out tonight as planned.
		Then come back and wait for me here.
		I'll be back by dawn.

					GANT
		Where you going?
				(she roars off)
		Hey!!  Where -- god-DAMN-it.

MOVING WITH SARAH as she leaves the compound.  We see John
running after her... yelling.  Can't hear his words.  She
looks in the rear-view mirror but doesn't slow down.

								   CUT TO:

EXT.  COMPOUND - MINUTES LATER - DAY

John, Terminator, and Gant ponder the message carved into
the top of the picnic table.  Sarah's knife is still
embedded there.  Ingram looks on, wondering what the big
deal is.

					JOHN
		"No fate but what we make." My
		father told her this... I mean, I
		made him memorize it, up in the
		future as a message to her--
				(he sees Gant's
				 expression)
		Never mind.  Okay, the whole thing
		goes  "The Future is not set.  There
		is no fate but what we make for
		ourselves."

					GANT
		What's it mean?

					TERMINATOR
		It means she intends to change the
		future somehow.

John snaps his fingers as it hits him...

					JOHN
		Dyson!!!

					GANT
		What?

					JOHN
		Miles Dyson.  She's gonna blow him
		away.  Son of a bitch!

					GANT
		Who's Dyson?

					JOHN
				(to Terminator)
		We gotta stop her.
				(he spins to Gant)
		Travis, you stay here in case she
		comes back.  Keep her here till we
		get back.  We need a jeep.

Gant is amazed to be getting orders from a ten-year-old.
Even more amazed to be following them.

					GANT
		Take that one.

He points to an open jeep nearby.  John motions to
Terminator and breaks into a run.

					JOHN
		Come on.  Let's get our stuff.

								   CUT TO:

INT./ EXT.  SARAH'S JEEP - DUSK

Sarah speeds through the darkening desert.  Her face is a
mask.  Grim and expressionless.  In her dark glasses, she
looks severe.  Pitiless as an insect.

								   DISSOLVE TO:

EXT.  HIGHWAY - NIGHT

TRACKING WITH A JEEP, Terminator and John heading into
L.A.

					TERMINATOR
		Why do you want to stop her, John?
		It may work.

					JOHN
		I don't care!!  Haven't you learned
		anything?!  There's gotta be another
		way.  Think!

PAN THEM BY as they pass, revealing the lights of the city
ahead.

								   CUT TO:

EXT.  GANT'S RANCH

Gant, deep in thought, approaches the back entrance to the
main house.  He sees Enrique asleep in a chair on the back
porch, rifle across his knees.  Gant works up to him like
a cat, and surprises him by swiping his cap.

Only Enrique doesn't surprise so well.  His head lolls
over and Gant sees the dilated pupils, the trickle of
blood from the corner of one eye.

Gant gets a shot of adrenalin that revs him into hyper-
alertness in two seconds.  He drops into the shadows next
to the chair and scans the surroundings rapidly.  In the
bushes, twenty feet away, another one of his men lies
crumpled and motionless.  Gant pulls his Detonics .45 and
thumbs the safety off, then slips his walkie off his belt.
He cups his hand over it and whispers.

					GANT
		Main gate?  Miguel?  Don't talk,
		just key your walkie if you copy,
		over.
				(there is no answer)
		Salceda?  You copy?  Franco?  Come
		back.

His answer is static.
Not good.  Gant takes a couple grenades from Enrique's
harness and slips them in a vest pocket.  He cat-steps to
the house.

INT.  GANT'S HOUSE

Gant enters the dark house.  His radar is turned up all
the way.  He hasn't felt his heart pounding like this
since Khe San.  He crosses the living room.  Pauses in the
corridor.  Silhouetted in the kitchen is a motionless
figure... Yolanda.

He puts his finger to his lips and motions her to him.
As she comes toward him Gant wonders at the last second
why she doesn't look particularly afraid... an instant
before Yolanda's hand snaps out into a two-foot steel
needle which punches through his abdomen and pins him to a
solid oak door with a THUNK!
He whips up the ,45 but THUNK!  His forearm is skewered,
pinned to the door at his side.
The pistol clatters to the floor.

He stares, face to face, into the eyes of the T-1000 as it
morphs into the cop-form.
Maybe this is an acid flashback, except it hurts too
goddamn much.  He knows suddenly that very special fear,
not just death, but of an incomprehensible death in a
deranged universe.

					T-1000
		Where is John Connor?

Gant squirms on the skewers like a bug, gasping with the
pain.

					GANT
		John who?

THUNK!  Another needle slams through him, sprouting
directly from the cop's chest.  It pins him through the
left lung.

					T-1000
		Where is John Connor?

Gant struggles to breathe against excruciating pain.

					GANT
		Don't know... gone.
				(THUNK.  Another
				 needle)
		Aaaarrgh!

THUNK.  Another.  Gant screams now, feeling rapier thrusts
through shoulder and groin.  He can't believe the pain.
His hand fumbles into the pocket of his vest.  Sweaty
fingers find a grenade there.  He pulls the pin.  The
spoon flies out and clinks on the floor.  T-1000 looks
down and looks up, into Gant's eyes.

					GANT
		FUCK YOU!!

EXT.  GANT'S HOUSE

The front of the house EXPLODES in Ingram's face.  He was
running toward the front door with his MPK machine-pistol
at ready.  The blast knocks him on his ass.  He sits up,
slashed by flying glass, to see the inside of the house
engulfed in flame.  Then he sees something on the ground,
just outside the shattered front door...
A chrome head.  Ingram's expression goes bugshit.  The
chrome mouth is moving, gulping like a gaffed fish.

A figure appears in the doorway... or most of a figure.
We TRACK WITH the polished black cop shoes toward the head
lying in the dirt.
A hand enters frame.  The head dissolves and fuses with
the hand, like two blobs of solder running together.

IN CLOSE-UP, the T-1000 rises into frame, whole again.
INGRAM snaps out of his stupor and crawls in a frenzy for
his machine pistol.  He starts screaming and firing,
screaming and firing as we TRACK IN ON HIM.
The MPK clicks empty.  It is swatted out of his hands and
s steel needle pins him to the dirt.

					T-1000
		Where is John Connor?

					INGRAM
		I don't know, man... aaaargh... they
		were talking about some guy... Dyson
		or something like that...

INGRAM'S POV as the impassive cop face hovers above him.

					T-1000
		Thank you for your cooperation.

The cop's hand comes into frame, the index finger pointing
straight at us.
RACK FOCUS to the tip of the finger as--
SSSNICK!  A flash of steel FILLS FRAME, then blackness.

								   CUT TO:

----------------------------------------------------------

				 DYSON'S VISION

					9/10/90

Dyson's dying vision in the 9/10/90 draft was originally a
much more stylized and lyrical death scene that emphasized
the man's character making peace with himself and with his
family at his sacrifice for the good of mankind.  Although
a powerful scene, it was ultimately never filmed as the
exploration of Dyson's character and his relationship with
his family became secondary to the main thrust of the
narrative.

INT.  LAB

Dyson is lying amid the ruins of his dream.  Sprawled on
the floor, he has his back propped up against the desk.
He is bathed in his own blood, which runs out in long
fingers across the tiles.  His breathing is shallow and
raspy.  He still holds the book, trembling, above the
switch.

In his lap is the picture from his desk.  He has pulled it
from the debris next to him.  A tear trickles from his
eye.  His wife and children smile up at him through broken
glass.

DYSON'S POV-- He sees only the picture.  WE PUSH IN
SLOWLY.  The sounds from outside are fading... megaphones,
the helicopter, distant sirens, all become fainter...
replaced by a ROARING SOUND which swells as the image of
the picture grows dark.  Darker and darker, the blackness
rushing at us now with the sound of thunder.  It gets
louder and LOUDER.  Like a black train pounding at us,
only it is a rolling cloud of red and black... blood-red
fire boiling up through a cloud-mass black as iron.  It is
the cloud-column of a hydrogen bomb, FILLING FRAME,
shaking our senses with its power.

And then...
It begins to recede.  The thunder rolls away, dying into a
wind which is like the last winds of a great storm, ebbing
into a smooth breeze as the iron clouds swirl away, giving
way to an image of gauzy light.  As if behind a soft veil
we see--

Danny and Blythe running toward us, laughing, in slow
motion.  Tarissa is behind them, smiling.  They are in
bright sunlight, an image of motion and life, a slice of
memory so vivid and precious a man needs only this to face
eternity.  We see their hair blown by the wind, the wind
which blows through history now, changing it...

We tilt up into a pure blue sky until the sun comes into
frame, spearing straight into the lens with pure light and
we...

CUT TO THE PUPIL OF HIS EYE, the sun becoming a glint of
light in that pupil, as we do a SNAP-PULLBACK to see Miles
Dyson at the moment of death.  His face is almost blank,
his gaze fixed, seeing what we cannot see, seeing a future
which has changed... there is the faintest hint of a
smile, the instant the light fades from his eyes and he is
gone--
His arm drops and the book hits the switch...

----------------------------------------------------------


