








Killer Kiss Script - A Stanley Kubrick Scrapbook Excusive



Killers Kiss - Typed by Art Chacon. Thank you and enjoy!



Killer's Kiss
Based on a story by Stanley Kubrick
Harris / Kubrick 1955

FADE IN:
1 - INT. TRAIN STATION DAY
Our lead character DAVY GORDON is standing around by himself smoking a cigerette. Beside him is his suitcase. He looks as if he is waiting for someone.
CREDITS PLAY
Sounds of train whistles, people talking, intercom, etc.
DAVY (V.O)
It's crazy how you can get yourself in a mess sometimes and not even be able to think about it with any sense. And yet not being able to think about anything else. You get so youre no good for anything or anybody. Maybe it begins by taking life too serious. Anyway, I think that's the way it began for me. Just before my fight with Rodriguez three days ago.
2 - EXT. CITY DAY
Shots of posters. The posters tell about Davy's fight with Rodriguez.
3 - INT. DAVY'S APARTMENT DAY
Shots of pictures on the wall.
Davy is standing around in his apartment. He looks into the mirror. He walks over to his sink and gets a glass of water then walks over to his dresser and feeds his gold fish.
PHONE RINGS
Davy answers
DAVY
Hello?
4 - EXT. GYM DAY
We see the man on the other phone line. Behind him we see to boxers in a boxing ring and people standing around.
MAN
Hello Davy.
(pause)
How are ya?
DAVY (V.O)
(on the other line)
Hey man where have you been? I've been waiting around here forever.
MAN
Listen you better hop in a cab. I had some trouble with my car and it's still in the shop. I'll meet you over at the arena.
DAVY (V.O)
Okay fine.
MAN
I'll see you there.
The man hangs up the phone and walks out of shot. We see the boxers in the background.
5 - INT. GLORIA PRICE'S APARTMENT DAY
Gloria Price is walking around her apartment. She walks over to the window and sees Davy getting his jacket on through his window. Gloria and Davy's apartments are right accross from each other. She sees him but he doesn't see her. 
In P.O.V we see Davy exit his apartment.
Gloria walks out of shot as if she is leaving her apartment too (she is).
6 - INT. STAIRS DAY
Davy is walking down the stairs. He looks like he has a way to go.
CUT TO:
Gloria leaves her apartment and starts walking down the stairs.
BACK TO DAVY
Davy reaches the bottom and checks his mail. He pulls out an envelope or two. He exits the building.
BACK TO GLORIA
Gloria reaches the bottom and exits the building out the same way Davy did.
7 - EXT APARTMENT BUILDING DAY
Gloria passes by Davy. She gives him a good stare.
In P.O.V we see Davy walking towards the subway station.
Gloria walks over to a convertable car on the side of the street where VINCENT RAPALLO sits waiting for her. He sees her coming towards him and he gets out of the car and walks over to Gloria. 
Vincent gives Gloria a kiss on the cheeck then opens the passanger door for her. She gets in the car and Vincent shuts the door behind her.
Vincent walks over to driver side and gets in he car. He notices Gloria still staring at Davy going down to the subway station.
VINCENT
Youre doing alright for yourself.
GLORIA
What do you meen?
(realises he was refering to Davy)
Oh, he just lives in the building.
VINCENT
Oh. Yeah he use to be a pretty good fighter.
GLORIA
A fighter?
VINCENT
Sure. He's fighting tonight as a matter of fact. We can watch him on the t.v.
GLORIA
That sounds interesting. Is he a good fighter?
VINCENT
Sure.
Vincent and Gloria drive off.
8 - INT SUBWAY TRAIN DAY
Davy is sitting down reading one of the letters that was in his mailbox.
VOICE (V.O)
Dear Davy. We still haven't heard from you yet this month and we wonder if everything was still alright with ya. Out here everything is about the same. I still get into Seattle every week and the ranch has prospered nicely. Last week I finally got to buy Mister Hendersons chestnut Arabian stallion. Your aunt Graces artherites is better she can even take short rides on Elmore every now and then. Well I guess that's all for now exept that we miss ya a lot Davy. Write soon. Love, Uncle George and Aunt Grace.
Dave puts the letter back in the envelope and puts it in his pocket.
9 - INT LOCKER ROOM NIGHT
It is the night of the fight. Davy verses Rodriguez.
Davy is getting ready. Two men bandage his hands up with tape.
Shots of Davy hitting a punching bag, using the coaches hands as targets, etc.
In the background we hear the ring onouncer and people screaming.
10 - EXT ARENA CITY NIGHT
Shots of people buying tickets to see the fight, resturaunts, cakes, hotdogs, etc.
CLOSE UP:
Sign outside of arena. It reads:
GORDON VS. RODRIGUEZ
11 - INT VINCENT'S OFFICE NIGHT
Vincent is walking around in his office smoking a cigar waiting for the fight to start on t.v. He has no lights on in his apartment just the light coming in from the windows from the city.
CLOSE UP of the t.v. The boxing match is on.
Vincent exits the office.
12 - INT BALLROOM NIGHT
Men and women are dancing and having fun. Gloria is dancing with a young fellow.
Vincent spots her and walks over to her and takes her away from the fellow she is dancing with. The fellow grabs Vincent by the arm and Vincent pushes him off.
Vincent takes Gloria up to his offce where they watch the fight.
13 - INT BOXING ARENA NIGHT
1 - Davy and Rodriguez are boxing. They exchange a bunch of hard punches. 
2 - The crowd is going wild.
3 - Rodriguez gives Davy a hard right hook to the left eye. 
4 - Davy goes down. He looks somewhat amazed.
5 - The referee counts to four.
6 - Davy gets up.
7 - He and Rodriguez go at it again.
8 - They exchange even harder punches this time.
9 - Rodriguez gets Davy with another hard right hook.
10 - Davy goes down again and gets up very quickly.
11 - Rodriguez gets him with yet another right hook.
12 - Davy goes down for good this time.
13 - The referee couts to ten. Rodriguez has won the fight.
LAST - Davy returns to his corner.
14 - INT VINCENTS OFFICE NIGHT
Vincent and Gloria kissing.
FADE TO BLACK
-------------------------------------------------------


 
