

					ÒTHE STAR WARSÓ

						From The

				Adventures of Luke Starkiller

						By

					George Lucas

Third Draft								Lucasfilm Limited
August 1, 1975

				"... and in the time of greatest despair,
				there shall come a savior, and he shall
				be known as The Son of The Suns."

						Journal of the Whills, 3:127

					"THE STAR WARS"

FADE IN:

1	EXT. SPACE									1  

		A vast sea of star serves as the backdrop for the MAIN
		TITLE, which is followed by a ROLL UP:

			The REPUBLIC GALACTICA is dead.  Ruthless
			trader barons, driven by greed and the 
			lust for power, have replaced enlighten-
			ment with oppression, and "rule by the
			people" with the FIRST GALACTIC EMPIRE.

			For over a thousand years, generations of
			JEDI KNIGHTS were the guardians of peace
			and justice in the galaxy.  Now these
			legendary warriors are all but extinct.
			One by one they have been hunted down and
			destroyed by the sinister agents of the
			Emperor:  the DARK LORDS OF THE SITH.

			It is a period of civil wars.  Rebel
			Armies, striking from fortresses hidden
			deep within the Great rift, have won a
			crushing victory over the powerful Imper-
			ial Starfleet.  The Emperor knows that
			one more such defeat will bring a thou-
			sand more solar systems into the rebellion,
			and Imperial control of the Outland systems
			could be lost forever.  To crush the
			rebellion once and for all, the Emperor
			has sent one of his most ferocious Dark
			Lords to find the secret rebel strongholds
			and destroy them...

		The awesome yellow planet of Utapau emerges from total
		eclipse.  A tiny silver spacecraft races into view, fol-
		lowed by a giant Imperial stardestroyer.  Hundreds of
		deadly laser bolts streak from the Imperial warship as
		it dives on the smaller craft.  The overwhelming concen-
		tration of laser fire causes the main solar fin of the 
		rebel craft to disintegrate, creating a spectacular
		heavenly display.  The smoldering rebel ship is quickly
		overtaken by the giant Imperial warship.

2	INT. REBEL SPACEFIGHTER - MAIN PASSAGEWAY			2 

		The chaos of battle echoes through the narrow, main cor-
		ridor of the starfighter.

		An explosion rocks the ship as two construction robots, 
		ARTOO DETOO (R2-D2) and SEE THREEPIO (C-3PO) struggle 
		to make their way through the shaking, bouncing passage-
		way.  Both robots are old and battered.  Artoo is a 
		short (36 inches), claw-armed, triped.  His face is a 
		mass of computer lights, surrounding a radar eye.
		Threepio, on the other hand, is a tall, slender robot 
		of human proportions.  He has a gleaming bronze-like 
		metallic surface of an "Art Deco" design. 

						THREEPIO
			Did you hear that?  They've shut down 
			the main reactor.  We'll be destroyed 
			for sure.  This is madness!

		The little dwarf robot makes a series of electronic sounds
		that only another robot could understand.  Rebel troops
		rush past the robots, and take up positions in the main
		passageway.  Everything is suddenly still and quiet.
		Tension mounts as the rebels wait for the pending attack.
		Loud metallic footsteps are heard moving around on the
		outside the hull of the ship.  The scraping screams of heavy
		equipment being dragged across the metal skin of the star-
		ship run chills up Threepio's bronze spine.  He huddles in
		a small alcove with little Artoo watching the passageway
		ceiling.

						THREEPIO
			There is no escape for the Captain
			this time...

		A tremendous blast opens up a hole six feet wide in the 
		side of the main passageway and a score of fearsome storm-
		troopers, armed with powerful multi-laser rifles, make 
		their way into the smoking corridor.  The rebel warriors
		draw their chrome, laser pistols, and blast out several
		shots that rip through the Imperial stormtroopers.  

		In a few moments, the entire passageway blazes with laser
		fire.  The deadly bolts ricochet in wild random patterns, 
		creating small explosions.  Stormtroopers scatter and duck 
		behind storage lockers.  Laser bolts hit several storm-
		troopers who scream and stagger through the smoke, holding 
		shattered arms and faces.  

		In the confusion, Artoo and Threepio are blown slipping
		and sliding into a power canister, but rushing gas from a
		broken pipe keeps knocking them over.  The lanky Threepio
		becomes entangled in the mass of dangling wires, which
		spark and pop every time he attempts to move.  Artoo clings
		to a pipe for dear life.

						THREEPIO
			Help me!  I think something is
			melting... This is all your fault!
			I should have known better than to
			trust the logic of a half-sized
			thermocapsulary dehousing-assister...

		Artoo counters with an angry rebuttal as he struggles to
		free the larger robot.  The battle rages around the two
		hapless robots.  Suddenly, there is a slight lull in the
		fighting, then a deathly quiet sweeps over the passageway
		as an awesome, seven-foot tall DARK LORD OF THE SITH makes
		his way into the blinding light of the main passageway.
		This is DARTH VADER, right hand of the Emperor.  His face
		is obscured by his flowing black robes and grotesque
		breath mask which stands out next to the fascist white
		armored suits of the Imperial stormtroopers.  Everyone
		instinctively backs away from the imposing warrior.

		Vader raises his arms and objects that aren't bolted down,
		including the rebel warriors, are picked up by an invisi-
		ble force and hurled to the end of the passageway.  In
		the excitement, Artoo and Threepio have fled down a
		sub-hallway.

3	EXT. UTAPAU - DESERT WASTELAND - DAY				3

		A death white wasteland stretches from horizon to hori-
		zon.  The tremendous heat of two huge twin suns settles
		on a lone figure, LUKE STARKILLER, a farm-boy with
		heroic aspirations; who looks much younger than his
		twenty years.  His short hair and baggy tunic give him
		the air of a simple-minded, but lovable lout with a
		prize-winning smile.  His face is partially covered by
		a breath mask and goggles.

		A light wind whips at him as he adjusts several valves
		on a large chrome pipe, which sticks out of the desert
		floor much like and oil-rig christmas tree.  He is aided
		by a small, very beat-up tread-robot with six claw arms.
		The little robot appears to be barely functioning, and
		moves with jerky motions.  A bright sparkle in the morn-
		ing sky catches Luke's eye, and he instinctively grabs a
		pair of electrobinoculars from his utility belt.

						LUKE
			Holy maker.

		He stands transfixed for a few moments, studying the
		heavens, then dashes toward his dented, crudely repaired
		Landspeeder (an auto-like transport that travels a few 
		feet above the ground on a magnetic field).

		He motions to the tiny robot, who is scooting around in
		a tight circle, to follow him.

						LUKE
			Hurry up!  Come with me.

		The robot stops short and smoke begins to pour out of 
		every joint.  Luke throws up his arms in disgust.

						LUKE
			Great, just great!

		He gives the dwarf robot a swift kick in the side, which
		doesn't seem to make much difference.  The young farm boy
		rushes to his landspeeder and zooms off leaving the
		smoldering robot to hum madly.

4	INT. REBEL SPACEFIGHTER - SUB-HALLWAY				4

		A series of explosions echo throughout the ship as the
		tall, gleaming Threepio rushes through the narrow sub-
		hallway yelling at Artoo, who is racing along on a small
		set of wheels under his center foot.

						THREEPIO
			They're heading in this direction!
			We'll be sent to the spice mines of
			KESSEL or smashed into who-knows-
			what!

		Artoo stops before the small hatch of an emergency life-
		pod.  He snaps the seal on the main latch and a red
		warning light begins to flash.  The stubby, dwarf-robot
		works his way into the cramped four-man pod.

						THREEPIO
			Hey!  You're not permitted in there.
			It's restricted.  You'll be
			deactivated for sure.  Now come out
			before someone sees you.  Come on!

		Artoo whistles something at his reluctant friend.

						THREEPIO
			I'm not getting in there.  No more
			adventures.  It's too dangerous.  I'm
			not that desperate.

		Artoo isn't happy with Threepio's stubbornness and he beeps
		and twangs angrily.

						THREEPIO
			Don't call me a mindless philosopher,
			you overweight glob of grease...

		A new explosion, this time very close, sends dust and
		debris through the narrow sub-hallway.  Flames lick at
		Threepio, and after a flurry of electronic swearing from
		Artoo, the lanky robot jumps into the lifepod.

						THREEPIO
			I'm going to regret this.

		The safety door snaps shut, and with the thunder of ex-
		ploding latches, the tiny lifepod ejects from the dis-
		abled starfighter.

5	INT. IMPERIAL STARDESTROYER - COCKPIT				5

		On the main viewscreen, the lifepod carrying the two ter-
		rified robots speeds away from the stricken rebel space-
		craft.

						CHIEF PILOT
			There goes another one.

						CAPTAIN
			Hold you fire.  No life forms.
			It must have short-circuited.  Don't
			waste your power...

6	INT. REBEL SPACEFIGHTER - COCKPIT CORRIDOR			6

		Darth Vader, the black knight, takes a short restraining
		pole from one of the guards and brutally jabs a captured
		rebel officer in the chest.

						VADER
			Where is she?  Where is it?

		The rebel cries out as the spooky looking Sith Lord be-
		gins to twist his arm, creating a gruesome snapping and
		popping of broken bones.

7	EXT. SKY OVER UTAPAU - LIFEPOD					7

		The reddish-yellow mass of Utapau seems to engulf the
		tiny lifepod containing the two robots.  The grouping
		of starships grows smaller as the pod descends toward
		the planet.

						THREEPIO
			That's funny.  the damage doesn't
			look as bad from out here.  Are you
			sure this thing is safe?

8	EXT. ANCHORHEAD SETTLEMENT - POWER STATION - DAY		8

		A small settlement, consisting of a few rundown block-
		house type buildings, rests against one of the huge rock
		mesas.  Heat waves radiate from the dozen or so bleached
		white buildings.  Luke pilots his landspeeder through
		the dusty, empty street of the tiny settlement.  An old
		WOMAN runs to get out of the way of the speeding vehicle,
		shaking her fist at Luke as he flies past.

						WOMAN
			I've told you kids to slow down!

		Luke pulls up behind a low concrete service station that
		is all but covered by the shifting desert sands.  The
		rusted hulk of a landspeeder lies half-buried to one side
		of the building.  Luke jumps out of the speeder and runs
		into the dilapidated power station.

9	INT. POWER STATION - DAY						9

		A dismantled speeder rests in the repair bay of the sta-
		tion.  Inside the station's "office" sits THE FIXER,
		rugged-looking, about thirty years old, with a big mous-
		tache.  On his lap sits CAMIE, a sexy, disheveled girl
		about eighteen.  Her cloak is pulled up and one of the
		Chief's hands rests on her beautiful thigh.  They are
		both sound asleep.  In a small room behind the office
		DEAK and WINDY, two tough boys about the same age as
		Luke, are playing a computer pool-like game with BIGGS,
		a tall, handsome startrooper cadet.  His flashy uniform
		is a sharp contrast to the loose-fitting tunic of farm
		boys.  A robot repairs some equipment in the background.

		Luke bounces in yelling excitedly, waking The Fixer and
		Camie.  The others come in from the other room, and
		Camie jumps off The Fixer's lap, pulling her dress down
		in a sexy manner.  Luke is surprised at the appearance
		of Biggs.

						LUKE
			Biggs, you're back!  You graduated
			from the academy, you're in the
			Starforce.

		Biggs has an air of cool that seems slightly phony.

						BIGGS
			Of course, where you been kid?

						LUKE
			You look great!  The uniform and
			everything!

		Biggs snaps to attention.

						BIGGS
			Startrooper Biggs Darklighter,
			guardian of the Bendu.  At your
			service...

		The dazzling spectacle of his uniformed friend is almost
		too much for Luke.  His eyes glaze over.  Suddenly he
		snaps out of it.

						LUKE
			I almost forgot.  There's a battle
			going on!  Right here in our system.
			Come and look!

10	EXT. ANCHORHEAD SETTLEMENT - POWER STATION - DAY	10

		The group stumbles out into the stifling desert sun.
		Deak and The Fixer complain, and are forced to shade
		their eyes.  Luke has his binoculars out, scanning the
		heavens.

						LUKE
			There they are!

		Biggs takes the binoculars from Luke, as the others
		strain to see something with the naked eye.  Through
		the binoculars Biggs sees two small silver specks.

						BIGGS
			That's no battle, kid... They're just
			sitting there!

						LUKE
			But there was a lot of firing earlier...

		Camie grabs the binoculars away from Biggs, banging them
		against the building in the process.  Luke reaches for
		them.

						LUKE
			Hey, easy with those...

						CAMIE
			Don't worry about it, Wormie.

		Fixer gives Luke a hard look, and the young farm boy
		shrugs his shoulders in resignation.

						BIGGS
			You're dreaming, kid.  I don't think
			the Empire wants to control this
			system.  Believe me, this place is
			a big hunk of nothing...

		Luke agrees, although it's obvious he isn't sure why.
		The group stumbles back into the power station, grumb-
		ling about Luke's ineptitude,

11	INT. REBEL SPACEFIGHTER - NARROW SUB-HALLWAY		11

		A beautiful young girl about sixteen years old huddles
		in a small alcove as the stormtroopers search through
		the ship.  She is LEIA ORGANA, a rebel princess.  The
		fear in her eyes slowly gives way to anger as the muted
		crushing sounds of the approaching stormtroopers grows
		louder.  She steps from her hiding place and blasts two
		troopers with her laser pistol, but she is greatly out-
		numbered and quickly captured.

12-13	INT. REBEL SPACEFIGHTER - HALLWAY - CABIN			12-13

		Princess Leia is led down a low-ceilinged hallway by a
		squad of armored stormtroopers.  Her hands are bound
		with brass bracelets, and she is brutally shoved when
		she is unable to keep up with the briskly marching
		troops.  They enter a small gloomy chamber where Darth
		Vader, the Dark Lord of the Sith, is sitting.  Vader
		speaks in an oddly filtered voice through his complex
		breathing mask.

						VADER
			Did you find anything?

						OFFICER
			Nothing, sir.

						VADER
			It must be on board somewhere.  Destroy
			the ship and everything on it.

						OFFICER
			What if they sent a signal?

						VADER
			We would have picked it up... Nothing
			got through... It's on the ship.

		The Officer bows and leaves the chamber.

						LEIA
			I'm a member of the senate.  You can't
			hold me... Organa Major is a neutral...

		Vader raises his arm and as a sudden pain grips Leia,
		she doubles up unable to continue.  Vader raises his arm
		and a flask on the table mysteriously jumps into his
		open hand.  He casually drinks from the flask.

						VADER
			Enough!  I already know about the
			data you've intercepted, but its'
			too late.  Whatever information you've
			gathered will be destroyed... You will
			come to know such suffering as only
			the Master of the Bogan Force can
			provide...

						LEIA
			You'll get no information from me.
			You have no authority... the council
			can't hold me!

						VADER
			It appears your ship had an accident.
			I will see to it that your death is
			duely reported.  There will be no one
			to save you this time.

		His frightening laugh rings throughout the ship.

14	EXT. UTAPAU - EDGE OF THE DUNE SEA				14

		JUNDLAND, or "No Man's Land," where the rugged desert
		mesas meet the foreboding dune sea.  The two helpless
		astro-robots kick up clouds of dust as they leave the
		lifepod and clumsily work their way across the desert
		coastline.

						THREEPIO
			What a forsaken place this is.
			We seem to be made to suffer.  It's
			our lot in life.  I've got to rest
			before I fall apart.  My joints are
			almost frozen.

		Suddenly Artoo makes a sharp right turn and starts off
		in the direction of the rocky desert mesas.  Threepio
		stops and yells at him.

						THREEPIO
			Where do you think you're going?!?

		A stream of electronic noises pour forth from the small
		robot.

						THREEPIO
			Well, I'm not going that way.  It's
			too rocky.  This way is much easier.
			What makes you think there are
			settlements that way?

		Artoo counters with a long whistle.

						THREEPIO
			Don't get technical with me.  I've
			had just about enough of you.  Go
			that way, go on!  You'll be
			malfunctioning within a day, you
			near-sighted scrap pile!

		He shoves Artoo and the tiny robot tumbles down a small
		dune.  Threepio starts off in the direction of the vast
		dune sea as little Artoo struggles to his feet and shakes
		a metallic claw at his ex-partner.

						THREEPIO
			... and don't let me catch you
			following me, begging for help...
			because you won't get it!

		Artoo's reply is a rather rude sound.  He turns and
		trudges off in the direction of the towering mesas.

15	EXT. UTAPAU - DUNE SEA							15

		Threepio, hot tired, struggles up over the ridge of
		a dune, only to find more dunes, which seems to go on
		for endless miles.  He looks back in the direction of
		the now distant rock mesas.
	
						THREEPIO
			You little malfunctioning twerp.
			This is all your fault.  You tricked
			me into going this way, but you'll do
			no better.

		He sits in a huff of anger and frustration, knocking the
		sand from his joints.  His plight seems hopeless, when
		a glint of reflected light in the distance reveals an
		object moving toward him.  The bronze android waves
		frantically and yells at the approaching transport.

16	INT. POWER STATION - DAY						16

		Luke and Biggs are sitting in a corner of the now empty
		power station.  Biggs has had a little too much to drink
		and sloppily leans close to Luke.

						BIGGS
			I'll tell you, Luke, and this is
			between you and me.  The star force
			isn't all it's cracked up to be.
			Frankly, it's a bore, and it's going
			to stay that way as long as this
			system is neutral...

						LUKE
			But you always said things were so
			great at the academy... What happened?

						BIGGS
			The academy is fantastic... Of course,
			they won't teach you anything about
			flying you don't already know.  Most
			of the instructors are very conservative
			pilots.  You can fly circles around 
			them... but there is a lot on the
			scientific side that is down-right
			amazing, and you get a lot of
			discipline... but after you graduate,
			don't join the star force -- go
			free-lance.  It's the only way to get
			into the action... I can't wait until 
			my hitch is up.

						LUKE
			At least you're doing something... I'd
			give anything to be in your position.

						BIGGS
			Just be warned, that things aren't
			always as they seem... especially the
			starforce recruiting posters.

		They quietly sit in the dim coolness of the station hav-
		ing run out of things to say.  Luke finishes his drink
		and stands up.

						LUKE
			It's getting late.  I've got to get
			back or my uncle's going to kill me.

17	EXT. UTAPAU - ROCK CANYON						17

		The gargantuan rock formations are shrouded in a strange
		foreboding mist, and the ominous sounds of unearthly
		creatures fill the air.  Artoo moves cautiously through
		the creepy rock canyon, inadvertently making a loud
		clicking noise as he goes.  He hears a distant, hard
		metallic sound and stops for a moment.  Convinced he is
		alone, he continues on his way.

		In the distance, a pebble tumbles down the steep canyon
		wall and a small, dark figure darts into the shadows.  A
		little further up the canyon a slight flicker of light
		reveals a pair of eyes in the dark recesses, only a few
		feet from the narrow path.

		The unsuspecting robot waddles along the rugged trail 
		until suddenly, out of nowhere, a powerful magnetic ray 
		shoots out of the rocks and engulfs him in an eerie glow.  
		He manages one short electronic squeak before he topples 
		over onto his back.  His bright computer lights flicker 
		off, then on, then off again.  Out of the rocks scurry 
		three MEN, no taller than Artoo.  They holster strange 
		and complex weapons as they cautiously approach the 
		robot.  They wear grubby cloaks, and their faces are 
		shrouded so that only their yellow eyes can be seen.
		They hiss and make odd guttural sounds as they heave the 
		heavy robot to their shoulders and carry him off down the 
		trail. 

18	EXT. UTAPAU - ROCK CANYON - SANDCRAWLER - SUNSET	18

		The eight dwarves, or JAWAS as they're sometimes called,
		carry Artoo out of the canyon to a huge tank-like vehicle 
		the size of a two-story house.  They place the robot under 
		a large tube on the side of the vehicle, and the little 
		robot is sucked into the giant machine.  

		The filthy little Jawas scurry like rats up small lad-
		ders and enter the main cabin of the behemoth transport.

19	INT. SAND CRAWLER - HOLD AREA					19

		It is dim inside the hold area of the sand crawler.
		Artoo switches on a small floodlight on his forehead and
		stumbles around the scrap heap.  The narrow beam swings
		across rusty metal rocket parts and an array of gro-
		tesquely twisted and maimed astro-robots.  He lets out a 
		pathetic electronic whimper and stumbles off toward what
		appears to be a door at the end of the chamber.

20	INT. SAND CRAWLER - PRISON AREA					20

		Artoo enters a wide room with a four-foot ceiling.  In
		the middle of the scrap heap sit a dozen or so robots
		of various shapes and sizes.  Some are engaged in elec-
		tronic conversation, while others simply mill about.
		A voice of recognition calls out from the gloom.

						THREEPIO
			Artoo Detoo!  It's you!

		A battered Threepio scrambles up to Artoo and embraces
		him.

21	EXT. UTAPAU - ROCK CANYON - SAND CRAWLER - SUNSET	21

		The enormous sand crawler lumbers off toward the mag-
		nificent twin suns, which are slowly setting over a
		distant mountain ridge.

22-23	INT. ALDERAAN - PRISON CORRIDOR AND CELL			22-23

		Two stormtroopers open an electronic cell door and allow
		a group of Imperial guards to enter.  Princess Leia's
		face is filled with defiance, which slowly gives way to
		fear as Darth Vader enters with a giant black torture
		robot.

						VADER
			Now you will tell me what you did
			with the data you gathered. Even
			if that information should find its
			way to Mouff Tarkin's legions, it
			will do them no good.  Your plight
			is truly hopeless.

		Leia stares at the evil lord with determination.

						VADER
					(continuing)
			You will tell me the location of
			your hidden bases, and you will tell
			me what happened to the data you stole.

		The door slides shut.  The long cell block hallway
		appears peaceful with armored stormtroopers marching
		back and forth.  The muffled sounds of the princess'
		screaming are barely heard.

24	EXT. SAND CRAWLER - DESERT WASTELAND - DAY			24

		A harsh gale blows across the bleak gray surface of the
		endless desert wasteland.  The morning sky presses down
		on the huge sand crawler as it slowly climbs one of the
		massive sand dunes, then disappears down the other side.

25	INT. SAND CRAWLER - PRISON AREA					25

		Threepio and Artoo noisily bounce along inside the
		cramped prison chamber.  Artoo appears to be shut off.

						THREEPIO
			Will this never end?

		Suddenly the trembling and bouncing of the sand crawler
		stops, creating quite a commotion among the mechanical
		men.  Threepio shakes Artoo, and his computer lights
		pop on.

						THREEPIO
			Wake up!  Wake up!  We've stopped!!
			We're doomed!  This is the end... Do
			you think they'll melt us down?

		At the far end of the long chamber a hatch opens, filling
		the chamber with blinding white light.  A dozen or so
		Jawas make their way through the odd assortment of
		robots, placing a small chrome ring to the wrists of the
		ones they select.  Artoo and Threepio are among the
		chosen, and are herded outside with several other
		unfortunates.

26	EXT. UTAPAU - LAR'S HOMESTEAD - AFTERNOON			26

		Five battered robots, including Artoo and Threepio, are
		lined up in front of the enormous sand crawler, which
		is parked beside a small homestead consisting of three
		rundown block houses.

		The Jawas scurry around fussing over the robots,
		straightening them up, or brushing some dust from a
		dented metallic elbow.  The shrouded little creatures
		smell horribly, attracting small insects to the dark
		areas where their mouths and nostrils should be.

		Out of the shadows of a dingy side-building limps OWEN
		LARS, a large burly man in his mid-fifties.  His reddish
		eyes are sunken in a dust-covered face.  As the weather-
		beaten farmer carefully inspects each of the robots, he
		is closely followed by his slump-shouldered nephew, Luke
		Starkiller.  One of the vile little Jawas walks ahead
		of the farmer spouting an animated sales pitch in a
		queer unintelligible language.

		Owen picks out a small astro-robot similar to Artoo, and
		it waddles along behind the group.  The limping farmer
		stops in front of Threepio and studies him carefully.

						OWEN
			Do you speak 'Bocce'?

						THREEPIO
			Yes, sir, I'm See Threepio, Human-
			Cyborg relations.  I have a full T-6
			capacity, and...

						OWEN
			That's enough.  Luke, take them to
			the garage and I want you to have
			both of them cleaned up by dinner.

		As the Jawas start to lead the three remaining robots
		back into the sand crawler, Artoo lets out a pathetic
		little beep and starts after his old friend Threepio,
		but is restrained by a slimy little Jawa, who zaps him
		with a little control box.  Owen is negotiating with the
		head Jawa, when Luke notices something on the R-2 unit.

						LUKE
			Uncle Owen, this R-2 unit has a bad 
			motivator, look!

		He lifts the R-2 unit's claw arm and it drops lifelessly
		to the robot's side.  Owen argues with the Jawas for a
		few moments; then with a little reluctance the scruffy
		dwarf trades the damaged astro-robot for Artoo Detoo.
		Owen pays off the whining Jawa as Luke and the two
		robots trudge off toward a grimy and decaying building
		on the far side of the homestead.  Several large rodents
		scatter as they pass.

27	INT. LAR'S HOMESTEAD - GARAGE AREA - LATE AFTERNOON	27

		The garage is cluttered and worn, but a friendly, peace-
		ful atmosphere permeates the low gray chamber.  In the
		center of the room Threepio lowers himself into a large
		tub filled with warm oil.  Near the battered "land-
		speeder" little Artoo rests on a large battery with a
		cord attached to his face.

						THREEPIO
			Thanks the maker!  This is going to
			feel sooo good.  I've got such a bad
			case of dust contamination, I can
			barely move.

		Artoo beeps a muffled reply.  Luke is slouched in the
		corner with his feet up on a bench, watching a magazine
		sized TV set.  A woman's voice calls out from the other
		room.

						BERU
			Luke!

		Luke jumps to his feet, turns off the TV set and starts
		dusting little Artoo with an oily rag.

						LUKE
			Yes, Aunt Beru... I'm in here.

						BERU
			Come to dinner.

		Luke drops the rag and dashes out of the garage.

28	INT. LAR'S HOMESTEAD - LIVING AREA - LATE AFTERNOON	28

		Luke and his uncle Owen sit before a table covered with
		steaming bowls of food.  AUNT BERU, a plump, gray-
		haired matron, carries in a pitcher of blue milk.  Luke
		is in a good mood, and gobbles down his food.

						LUKE
			Well, I'm sure glad we finally
			bought those extra 'droids.'  I'm
			sending my application to the
			academy first thing in the morning.

		Luke's Uncle Owen has a scowl on his face and appears
		to be in a very grumpy mood.

						OWEN
			First thing tomorrow morning you're
			going to check those condensing units
			on the south ridge.

						LUKE
			I will, but I'll have enough time 
			to transmit my application first.

						OWEN
			You'll check the condensing unit
			first... and you're not going to bed
			until those 'droids' are completely
			cleaned up...

						LUKE
			But you promised!  I've saved enough
			money and now you have the extra help
			... you promised!

						OWEN
			I said we'd see.
					(pauses for a
					moment)
			And as it is, I was forced to borrow 
			your academy savings to buy the new
			'droids.'  When you've saved it up
			again, I'll let you go.

						LUKE
			You used my savings!  You stole my
			savings.  If my father were here...

						OWEN
			Your father's dead.  Don't ever forget
			who's taking care of you, giving you
			food, giving you shelter, and giving
			you the allowance in the first place.
			If you plan to work at the academy the
			way you work around here, you won't
			last very long.  I don't want another
			word.  Finish your dinner, then finish
			cleaning those 'droids.'

		Luke pushes his half-eaten plate of food aside and rushes 
		out of the room.  Owen mechanically finishes his dinner
		afraid to look at his quietly sympathetic wife.

						BERU
			Owen, you know it means so much to
			him.  Couldn't you have been a little
			easier with him?

						OWEN
			The academy won't treat him any
			differently.  If he's going to
			become a cadet, he'll have to get used
			to it.

29	EXT. UTAPAU - LAR'S HOMESTEAD - GARAGE AREA - DUSK	29

		The giant twin suns of Utapau slowly disappear behind
		a distant dune range.  Luke stands watching them for a
		few moments, then reluctantly enters the dimly lit
		garage.

30	INT. LAR'S HOMESTEAD - GARAGE AREA - DUSK			30

		Threepio is wiping the oil from his glistening bronze
		body and little Artoo is still plugged into the power
		unit.  Luke is very angry and slams a wrench across the
		workbench.

						LUKE
			It just isn't fair!

		Threepio timidly approaches the fuming youth.

						THREEPIO
			I beg your pardon, sir, but you appear
			to be quite distraught.  Is there
			anything I might do to help?

		Luke glances at the battered robot and a bit of his anger
		drains and a tiny smile creeps across his face.

						LUKE
			Not unless you could get me into the
			military academy at Anchorhead.

						THREEPIO
			I'm sorry, sir, I'm only a 'droid,'
			and not very knowledgeable of such
			things... not on this system anyway.
			As a matter of fact, I'm not even 
			sure which system we're on.

						LUKE
			That's all right.  There is nothing
			anyone can do about it.  You can 
			call me Luke.

						THREEPIO
			Thank you, sir.  I'm See Threepio,
			Human Cyborg relations, and this is
			my counterpart, Artoo Detoo.

		Luke unplugs Artoo and begins to scrape several connectors
		on the robot's head with a chrome pick.  Threepio con-
		tinues to dry himself.

						LUKE
			There's a lot of carbon scoring here.
			It looks like you boys have seen a
			lot of action...

						THREEPIO
			Indeed, sir, sometimes I'm amazed
			we're in as good shape as we are,
			what with the rebellion and all...

		Luke sparks to life at the mention of rebellion.

						LUKE
			You've been in the Counter Wars?...
			Against the Empire?

						THREEPIO
			That's how we came to be in your 
			service, if you take my meaning...

						LUKE
			Tell me where you've been.  I am
			going to become a startrooper and
			fight in the wars.  My father was a
			Jedi!  Were you in many battles?

						THREEPIO
			Several, I think.  There is not much 
			to tell.  I'm not much more than an
			interpreter, and not very good at
			telling stories, not at making them
			interesting anyway...

		Luke struggles to remove a small metal fragment from
		Artoo's neck joint.  He uses a larger pick.

						LUKE
			Well, my little friend, you've got
			something jammed in here real good...
			Were you on a star-cruiser or a...

		The fragment breaks loose with a snap, sending Luke tumb-
		ling head over heels.  He sits up and sees a small (15
		inch) 3-D hologram of Leia Organa, the rebel princess,
		being projected from the face of little Artoo.  The image
		is a rainbow of colors as it flickers and jiggles in the
		dimly lit garage.  Luke's mouth hangs open in awe.

						LEIA
			Whoever finds this message, I beg you
			see this R-2 unit delivered safely to
			the authorities on Organa Major.
			It is of the most vital importance
			to all free systems.  I guarantee in
			the name of the United Assembly that
			you will be richly rewarded for your
			efforts... My Commanders, use fix
			Arra Code... X loc tan too nine, I am
			lost.  The Sith Lord will surely take
			me to Alderaan.  You must continue
			alone...

		There is a little static, then the transmission is cut
		short.  A grave concern sweeps over Luke, and he runs
		out of the garage.

						LUKE
			Uncle Owen!  Aunt Beru!

31	INT. LAR'S HOMESTEAD - KITCHEN AREA - NIGHT		31

		Now that night has fallen, the interior of the home-
		stead is filled with a warm glow.  Luke rushes in as
		his Aunt Beru is putting the last of the dinner plates
		away.

						LUKE
			Aunt Beru!

						BERU
			What is is, dear?

		Luke is out of breath and takes a few moments to compose
		himself.  A realization crosses his mind and he suddenly
		seems much calmer.

						LUKE
			Ahh... I... I'm finished with the
			droids and I wondered if I could...
			ahhh... work on my speeder before I
			turn in...

						BERU
			I'm sure that would be all right.
			But not too late, dear.

		Luke gives his aunt a big hug.  He seems suddenly very
		sentimental and serious.

						LUKE
			I love you, Aunt Beru.  I really do.

		He gives her a little kiss on the cheek and leaves.

						BERU
					(to herself)
			Now what's gotten into that boy?

32	EXT. UTAPAU - LAR'S HOMESTEAD - COURTYARD - MORNING	32

		Morning slowly creeps into the sparse, but sparkling
		oasis of the open courtyard.  The idyll is broken by the
		yelling of Uncle Owen, his voice echoing throughout the
		building.

						OWEN
			Luke!  Luke!  Where could he be
			loafing now?

		Owen enters the courtyard in a huff, scattering the large
		gopher-like rodents.  He opens the garage and notices the
		battered old landspeeder id missing.

						OWEN
			Beru!  Come here!

33	INT. LAR'S HOMESTEAD - GARAGE AREA - MORNING		33

		Owen enters the garage and looks around.  He picks up
		a magazine-like video slate sitting propped up on the
		bench.  It generates a soft glow, as if it had been left
		on "hold."  Beru hurries into the garage.

						BERU
			What is it?

		As Owen picks up the video-slate, it turns itself on and
		Luke's image appears.

						LUKE
			Aunt Beru, Uncle Owen, I don't mean
			to hurt you and I know you've been
			good to me, but I'm leaving.  There
			are important things I must do.  I've
			taken my speeder and the 'droids' which
			you bought with my savings.  I've also
			taken my father's lightsaber.  You can
			keep everything else.  I am grateful
			for all you've done.  I'll miss you,
			Aunt Beru.  I love you both...

		The image fades and the old couple stare at one another.
		Beru's face is filled with a great loos.  Finally she
		turns and leaves the garage, and Owen in disbelief.

						OWEN
			That boy is going to get himself
			killed... He's just like his father.

34	INT. LUKE'S SPEEDER - DESERT WASTELAND (TRAVELING) - DAY 34

		The rock and sand of the desert floor are a blur as
		Threepio pilots the sleek landspeeder gracefully across
		the vast wasteland.  Luke rides precariously on the back
		trunk of the vehicle adjusting something in the motor
		compartment.

						LUKE
					(yelling)
			How's that?

		Threepio signals that it is fine, and Luke climbs back
		into the wind-whipped cockpit and slides the canopy shut.

						LUKE
			I've never been this far beyond the
			dune sea before.  Biggs said the wild
			things out here were weird and savage,
			but it doesn't look like there is much
			out here to me.  I think we should
			be there soon.  General Kenobi was my
			father's commander, and he is probably
			the greatest of all the Jedi knights...
			or at least my father thought so.  He
			will certainly know what to do.

35	EXT. UTAPAU - ROCK MESA - DUNE SEA - COASTLINE - DAY	35

		From high on a rock mesa, the tiny landspeeder can be 
		seen gliding across the desert floor.  Suddenly in the 
		foreground two weather-beaten Tusken Raiders, shrouded in 
		their grimy desert cloaks, peer over the edge of the 
		rock mesa.  One of the marginally human creatures raises 
		a long ominous laser-rifle, and points it at the speeder,
		but the second creature grabs the gun before it can be 
		fired.

		The Tusken Raiders speak in a coarse barbaric language 
		as they begin to get into an animated argument.

		The second Tusken seems to get in the final word and 
		the nomads scurry over the rocky terrain to where two
		large BANTHAS are standing tied to a rock.  The mon-
		sterous bear-like creatures are as large as elephants,
		with huge red eyes, tremendous looped horns, and long
		furry dinosaur-like tails.  The raiders mount saddles
		strapped to the huge creature's shaggy backs and ride
		off down the rugged bluff.

36	EXT. UTAPAU - SAND DUNE - DAY					36

		The battered landspeeder is parked on the top of a huge
		sand dune.  Luke, with his long-barreled laser-rifle
		slung over his shoulder, makes his way past the bleached
		bones of a dinosaur-like beast.  When he reaches the top
		of the ridge, he searches the landscape with his electro-
		binoculars.  Threepio lifts Artoo out of the speeder and
		the stubby little robot struts around stretching his
		joints between irritated whistles.  Luke is depressed as
		he returns to the speeder.

						LUKE
			According to my father's tapes, this
			is the spot where General Kenobi lives,
			but the instruments just don't match 
			up with the landscape... There is no
			doubt about it, we're lost...

						THREEPIO
			If you don't mind my saying so, sir,
			I don't see how anyone could live in
			this forsaken place.

						LUKE
			Well, I don't know what to do now.
			We'll just have to head inland and
			see if we can't find a settlement.

37	INT. LUKE'S LANDSPEEDER - ROCK CANYON FLOOR (TRAVELING)   37
		- DAY

		Threepio maneuvers the powerful landspeeder around
		several massive boulders in the narrow canyon, as Luke
		intently studies the pulsing radar scope.

						LUKE
			Something is definitely in the next
			canyon.  There are two or three of
			them, maybe more.
			I don't like the looks of it.  It
			could be Tusken Raiders or...
			anything.  You'd better stop and I'll
			try to get a look at them.

38	EXT. UTAPAU - CANYON RIDGE - DAY					38

		Luke carefully makes his way to the top of a rocky ridge
		and scans the canyon with his electrobinoculars, until
		he spots the two riderless Banthas.  Threepio struggles
		up behind the young adventurer.

						LUKE
			I think we'd better go another way.  
			There are two Banthas down there.
			I don't see any... wait a minute.
			They're Tusken Raiders all right!
			I see one of them...

		Luke watches the distant Tusken Raider through his elec-
		trobinoculars.  Suddenly something huge moves in front 
		of his field of view.  Before Luke or Threepio can 
		react, a large gruesome Tusken Raider looms over them.
		Threepio is startled and backs away, right off the side 
		of the cliff.  He can be heard for several moments as he 
		clangs, bangs and rattles down the side of the mountain.

		The towering creature brings down his glowing red laser-
		sword, but Luke manages to block the blow with his 
		laser-rifle, which is neatly cut in half.  The terrified 
		farm boy scrambles backward until he is able to ignite
		his own laser-sword and defend himself.  In a flurry of
		blows Luke is forced to the edge of a deep crevice.  Luke
		stumbles under the mighty blows of the fearsome creature,
		drops his sword and almost tumbles over the cliff to his
		death.  He hangs on for dear life as his feet dangle 
		over the abyss.  The sinister Raider stands over him and
		lets out a horrible shrieking laugh that echoes 
		throughout the canyon.

39	EXT. UTAPAU - ROCK CANYON FLOOR - DAY				39

		Artoo forces himself into the shadows of a small alcove 
		in the rocks as the vicious Tuskens walk past carrying 
		armloads of supplies from the battered landspeeder.  As
		they disappear, Artoo squirms out of his hiding place
		and waddles into the clearing where the speeder is
		parked.

		The vehicle has been ransacked, and Luke is hanging in
		a state of bewilderment about ten feet in the air.
		Large gold bracelets with small antenna are attached
		to his wrists and ankles.  He is spread-eagle and
		slowly rotating.  Artoo stands above his master and
		beeps a few words of astonishment.

						LUKE
			Well, don't just sit there.  Get
			something to get me down!

		Artoo starts searching for something in the speeder that
		he might use to get his master down.  He pulls a long
		length of wire out of the engine compartment and ties it
		into a lasso.  As Luke slowly rotates around, Artoo 
		swings the rope and catches the boy around the foot.
		The line goes taut but rather than pulling Luke down,
		little Artoo is pulled up as if he had roped a windmill.
		The stubby robot lets out an electronic shriek and drops
		to the ground with a crash.

						LUKE
			We'll have to short circuit these
			things somehow...

		At that moment footsteps are heard coming through the
		narrow canyon.  Artoo scampers back into his hiding place.
		Luke's face is a roadmap of agony as the footsteps get
		louder.

		A huge menacing shadow on the canyon wall gives way to a
		shabby old desert rat of a man, who appears to be at
		least seventy years old.  His ancient leathery face, 
		cracked and weathered by exotic climates, is set off by 
		dark, penetrating eyes, and a scraggly white beard.  BEN
		KENOBI squints his eyes as he scrutinizes Luke in his
		predicament.

						BEN
			Good morning!

						LUKE
			What do you mean, 'good morning'?
			Do you mean that it is a good morning
			for you, or do you wish me a good
			morning, although it is obvious I'm
			not having one, or do you find that
			mornings in general are good?

						BEN
			All of them altogether.
			You seem to have gotten yourself
			into a fine mess!  What happened?

		The wizened old man begins to giggle like a child,
		putting his frail hand to his mouth in a vain attempt
		to contain himself.  Luke becomes annoyed.

						LUKE
			Tusken Raiders caught me off guard...
			Well, kill me or cut me down, but
			don't just leave me here, 'cause
			I'm about to go out off my mind.

		Much to Luke's surprise, the old codger draws his laser-
		pistol and blasts Luke point blank.  The young farmer
		disappears in a cloud of smoke and drops to the ground.
		The old man leans over the boy as he rolls over with a
		loud groan.

						BEN
			Sorry, but that was the only way to
			get you down.

						LUKE
			Couldn't we have tried to think of
			something else first!

						BEN
			You're lucky those Tuskens didn't
			boil you before they hung you out to
			dry.  They're not the friendly sort.
			You'd best be moving on before they
			come back.

		Luke staggers to his feet as Artoo waddles up behind him
		and lets out a pathetic little beep.

						LUKE
			Threepio!

		Luke hobbles off toward the canyon bluff.

40	EXT. UTAPAU - GRAVEL PIT- ROCK MESA - DAY			40

		Little Artoo stops at the edge of a large gravel pit
		and begins to chatter away in electronic whistles and
		beeps.  Luke slides down to where a very dented and
		tangled Threepio lies half buried in the gravel.

		He tries to revive the inert robot by shaking him, and
		then flips a hidden switch on his back several times
		until finally the mechanical man's systems turn on.

						THREEPIO
			What happened?  I'm sorry, sir, I
			must have taken a bad step...

						LUKE
			Can you stand?  We've got to get out
			of here before those Tuskens come
			back.

						THREEPIO
			I can't make it.  You go on, master
			Luke.  It doesn't make sense for you
			to risk yourself on my account.  I'm
			done for.

						LUKE
			No, you're not.  What kind of talk
			is that...

		The young farmer helps the battered robot to his feet.
		Old Ben and little Artoo watch from the top of the pit.

41	EXT. UTAPAU - ROCK CANYON FLOOR - DAY				41

		Luke and Old Ben struggle to help Threepio into the
		low-slung speeder.  Artoo follows them, carrying a
		clawful of tiny parts which have dropped of his friend.

						BEN
			What brings a young boy like you way
			out here?

		Luke bristles at the use of "boy."

						LUKE
			I'm Luke Starkiller, guardian of the
			Bendu.

						BEN
			Oh, so you're a warrior then?

						LUKE
			Of course.  I'm a Bendu officer.

		Ben studies the young farmer through narrowed eyes.  He
		suppresses a smile.

						LUKE
			Did you take me for a trapper of a
			farmer?  Good!  Then my disguise is
			all right.  I was afraid I might not
			look authentic.

		Luke notices the old man is impressed with his story,
		and begins to feel expansive.

						LUKE
			You can never be too careful in these
			times.  A Bendu officer never gives 
			himself away.  I'm actually on a
			dangerous mission that's of the
			gravest importance to the...

		Luke suddenly realizes the old man might be an Imperial
		spy and a worried look crosses his face.  Ben laughs
		heartily.

						BEN
			You're right!  I could be an Imperial
			spy.  For a Bendu officer, you're
			quite a fool.

		Luke is embarrassed and concentrates on making Threepio
		comfortable.

						LUKE
			Who are you anyway?

						BEN
			You might say I'm part of the
			landscape here.  They call me Ben
			Kenobi.

		Luke is dumbstruck.  Then with a combination of awe and
		excitement he finds his voice.

						LUKE
			You're General Kenobi?!?  The Jedi
			knight!  The commander of the White
			Legions?

						BEN
			I'm afraid it's been a long time
			since the White Legions roamed the
			stars.  But I have the memories.

		Luke drops to his knees and bows before the old Jedi.

						LUKE
			I should have recognized you.

		The old man rubs his beard in wonder.

						BEN
			I don't see why.  I don't believe
			we've ever met.

						LUKE
			I am the son of Annikin Starkiller.

		The scruffy old Jedi smiles at the kneeling boy.

						BEN
			I know who you are.  Stand up so
			that we can talk properly.  You're
			embarrassing me.  I'm not that
			important.

						LUKE
			But you are... I know your 'Diary
			of the Clone Wars' by heart.  My
			father...

		A sudden thought crosses Luke's mind and his enthusiasm
		turns to embarrassed silence.

						LUKE
			I... I'm not a Bendu Officer.  I'm
			not even a startrooper.

						BEN
			I know that.

						LUKE
			You saw through me?

						BEN
			You could put it that way.

						LUKE
			I assure you my intentions weren't
			bad.

						BEN
			I know your intentions.  I probably
			know much more about you than you
			realize.  In many ways you're a lot
			like your father.  He was an indulgent 
			man, but a clever warrior.  Now what
			brings you out here?

						LUKE
			My father told me many stories about
			you.  He said if I was ever in trouble,
			to come here... I need your help.

42	INT. CAVE DWELLING - MAIN LIVING AREA - NIGHT		42

		The clean but spartan cave dwelling radiates an air of
		time worn comfort and security.  The image of the beau-
		tiful rebel princess is projected from Artoo's face.

						LEIA
			... that you will be richly rewarded
			for your efforts... My commanders use
			fix Arra code... X loc tan too nine.
			I am lost.  The Sith lords will surely
			take me to Alderaan.  You must continue
			alone.

		There is a little static and the transmission is cut
		short.  The old man leans back and scratches his head.
		He silently puffs on a tarnished chrome water pipe.

						BEN
			I'm afraid I've gotten too old for
			this sort of thing.

						LUKE
			But you must!  I can't do it alone.
			I'm not at all like my father.  I'd
			never make it.

						BEN
			I already know you think you're
			worthless.  I recommend you learn to
			think of yourself in a better light,
			for what you believe you are is what
			you become.  I haven't been involved
			in anything like this for many years.

						LUKE
			But the Sith Lords are involved!
			Whatever information this R-2 unit
			is carrying, it must be awfully 
			important.  They're probably looking
			for him... I'm no match for the Sith.
			This is a Jedi's work.  This is your
			responsibility!

						BEN
			Not any more!

		The old man suddenly ignites in a rage and swings his
		left forearm down across the solid metal table with a
		mighty blow.  His arm cracks in two, spewing forth
		wires and electronic components.

						BEN
			I'm not the same.  I'm too old.  I've
			lost too much.  You don't seem to 
			realize I've become an outlaw, to be
			hunted... and killed.

		Luke bows his head in sorrow for one of the greatest
		warriors in the galaxy and a fallen idol.  Ben is em-
		barrassed and makes a needless adjustment on the pot
		belly thermal heater, which radiates a warm glow through-
		out the room.  Little Artoo begins to pick up the pieces
		of the old man's arm and reassemble them.  The badly
		dented Threepio breaks the awkward silence by noisily
		standing up.

						THREEPIO
			If you'll not be needing me any more,
			I think I'll shut down for awhile.

		Luke nods his head.  Old Ben leans back in his chair.

						BEN
			Son, I'm sorry I lost control.
			Perhaps we should talk about this in
			the morning.

43	INT. CAVE DWELLING - SLEEPING AREA - NIGHT			43

		Luke tosses and turns in his sleep.  Threepio sleeps
		peacefully.  Luke keeps hearing the voice of Princess
		Leia calling out for help.  Suddenly he sits up with a
		start.  He hears Leia's voice coming from the main
		living area.  Luke climbs out of bed and quietly makes
		his way through the darkened dwelling.  He stops at the
		entrance to the main room.

44	INT. CAVE SWELLING - MAIN LIVING AREA - NIGHT		44

		Ben is sitting before the flickering hologram image of
		Princess Leia.  The old man rests his head in his one
		good arm.  His back is to Luke, but he senses the boy's
		presence.

						BEN
			Luke, come here... sit down.

		Luke walks over and sits across from the old man.

						BEN
			You were right.  It is my 
			responsibility.  The Force of
			Others brought the message to you and
			then it brought you to me.

						LUKE
			My father used to talk about the
			Force of Others.  But he never told
			me what it was...

						BEN
			Let's just say the Force is something
			a Jedi Warrior deals with.  It is an
			energy field in oneself, a power that
			controls ones acts, yet obeys ones
			commands.  It is nothing, yet it makes
			marvels appear before your very eyes.
			All living things generate this Force
			field, even you.

						LUKE
					(amazed)
			You mean I generate an energy field?

						BEN
			It surrounds you and radiates from
			you.  A Jedi can feel it flowing from
			him...
					(patting his
					stomach)
			... from here!

						LUKE
			Could I learn to feel it?

		The old man leans back and scratches his head smiling
		slightly.

						BEN
			That is not a human decision, not
			your or mine.

						LUKE
			What do you mean?

						BEN
			It means you'd better get some rest.
			We'll be leaving for Mos Eisley
			first thing in the morning.  The
			trip will be difficult and dangerous,
			but it's the only spaceport with
			ships large enough to get us to
			Organa Major.  Now go on!

		Luke reluctantly stands and heads for the bedroom.

45	EXT. UTAPAU - ENTRANCE TO CAVE DWELLING - MORNING	45

		Artoo and Threepio carry supplies out of the cave dwell-
		ing to where Luke loads them into the landspeeder.  Old
		Ben emerges into the sunlight and stretches his new arm.

						BEN
			It looks like a good day for travel.
			The Force is with us.

		Ben walks over to the speeder and puts his hand on Luke's
		shoulder.

						BEN
			Luke, I'm coming along to do what
			I can, but I'm tired and I'm depending
			on you to get us through.

						LUKE
			But you're still a powerful Jedi.
			You don't need my help.

						BEN
			A Jedi's power is measured by the 
			amount of the Force that is stored 
			within him, and I have little of the
			Force left in me.

						LUKE
			How can you store an energy field 
			within you?

						BEN
			When a creature dies, the force it
			generated remains.  The Force is all
			around us.  It can be collected and
			transmitted through the use of a
			Kiber crystal.  It's the only way to
			amplify the power of the Force within
			you.

						LUKE
			Don't you have a Kiber crystal?

						BEN
			I had one, but it was taken at the
			battle of Condawn...

						LUKE
			That's where my father was killed.

						BEN
			Yes.  It was a black day.  One of
			my disciple's took the crystal and
			became a Sith Lord.  It was a black
			day.  The few crystals that remain 
			are in the possession of the Sith
			Lords on Alderaan.  That's how they've
			become so powerful.

						LUKE
			Do the Sith know the ways of the
			Force?

						BEN
			They use the Bogan Force.

						LUKE
			Like Bogan weather, or bogan times.
			I thought that was just a saying.

						BEN
			There are two halves of the Force of
			Others.  One is positive and will help
			you if you learn how to use it.  But
			the others half will kill you if you
			aren't careful.  This negative side
			of the Force is called the Bogan,
			which is where the expression came
			from, and it is the part that is used 
			by the Dark Lords to destroy their
			opponents.  Both halves are always
			present.  The Force is on your right,
			the Bogan is on your left.  The Kiber
			Crystal can amplify either one.  The
			Crystal Darth stole was the last one
			in the possession of the Jedi.  When
			he joined the Sith, the power of the 
			Dark Lords was completed.

		Artoo and Threepio are already in the speeder, as Luke
		and old Ben climb in.  The speeder starts with a low hum.

46	INT. ALDERAAN - CRYSTAL CHAMBER					46

		Three SITH LORDS are on their knees praying before a
		shining crystal placed on a tall altar.  They mumble a
		strange electronic chant.

						1ST SITH
			Darth, did you feel that?

		Darth stands and stares at the crystal.

						2ND SITH
			Was it an omen?  What is it?

						VADER
			Something old has been awakened.  The
			Force has suddenly grown stronger,  We
			must travel future paths with caution.

		They file out of the chamber.

47	EXT. UTAPAU - BLUFF OVERLOOKING MOS EISLEY SPACEPORT	47
		- DAY

		The speeder zooms across the desert wasteland and
		eventually stops on a bluff overlooking the spaceport
		at MOS EISLEY.  It is a haphazard array of low gray con-
		crete structures and semi-domes.  A harsh gale blows
		across the stark canyon floor.  Luke adjusts his goggles
		and walks to the edge of the craggy bluff, where Ben is
		standing.

						BEN
			Well, there it is, Mos Eisley.  A
			more wretched hive of scum and
			villainy can't be found this side
			of the empire...

48	EXT. MOS EISLEY SPACEPORT - SLUM DWELLING - DAY		48
 
		Luke stops the speeder before the remains of a burnt-
		out spaceship the size of a large jet fighter.  Two
		scruffy figures huddle around a small thermal heater,
		attempting to use the decaying building as shelter
		against the howling winds.  One of the rag-tag figures
		ventures over to the group in the speeder.  It is
		obvious from his pint size that he is a Jawa.  Artoo
		lets out a string of electronic beeps and whistles.

						THREEPIO
			I begging your pardon, sir, but watch
			out for this thing.

		The wretched little creature moves close to the speeder
		and begins to run his gnarled hand across it.

						JAWA
			Clinga fouf.  Zoom zoom.  Chiq?

						LUKE
			Where are the men who fly in the
			ships?

		Saliva dribbles from the dark hole where the Jawa's face
		should be and drops, splat on the hood of the speeder.
		Threepio repeats the question in the Jawa's language,
		and the vile creature points to the far end of the street
		and mumbles something.

						THREEPIO
			He says there's an inn down the
			street.  Lots of fliers there.  But
			I wouldn't take his word for it.

		The Jawa continues to fondle the speeder as Luke starts
		the magno-system.  The filthy creature reluctantly jumps
		away as the speeder takes off and glides down the dingy
		spaceport street.  A giant lizard scurries out of the 
		wretched spaceship chased by a stubby Jawa.

49	EXT. MOS EISLEY SPACEPORT - CANTINA - DAY			49

		The speeder pulls up in front of a rundown, blockhouse
		cantina on the outskirts of the spaceport.  Various
		strange forms of transport, including several unusual
		beasts of burden, are parked outside the bar.

						THREEPIO
			I can't abide those Jawas.  Disgusting
			creatures.

						BEN
			Take care in here.  I don't like the
			looks of this place.

		Luke, Ben and the two robots climb out of the speeder,
		and brace themselves against the constant shipping wind.

50	INT. MOS EISLEY CANTINA - DAY					50

		The young adventurer and his two mechanical servants fol-
		low Ben Kenobi into the smoke-filled cantina.  The
		murky, moldy den is filled with a startling array of
		weird and exotic alien creatures and monsters, laughing
		at the long metallic bar.  At first the sight is horrifying.

		One-eyed, thousand-eyed, slimy, furry, scaly tentacles
		and claws huddle over drinks.  Ben and Luke move to an
		empty spot at the bar near a group of repulsive but
		human Corellian pirates.  A huge, rough-looking 
		BARTENDER comes over to Luke and the robots.

						BARTENDER
			We don't serve 'their kind' in here.

		Luke, still recovering from the shock of seeing so many
		outlandish creatures, doesn't quite catch the Bartender's
		drift.

						LUKE
			What?

						BARTENDER
			Your 'droids' will have to wait 
			outside.  We don't serve 'em here.

		Luke looks to Old Ben who is busy talking to one of the
		Corellian pirates.  He notices that several of the grue-
		some creatures along the bar are giving him a very un-
		friendly glare.

						LUKE
			Yes, of course.  I'm so sorry.
					(turns to Threepio)
			You'd better stay with the speeder.
			We don't want any trouble.  I'll...
			ahh... bring you something.

		Threepio and his stubby partner go outside and most of
		the creatures at the bar go back to their drinks.  Ben
		is standing next to CHEWBACCA, an eight foot tall,
		savage-looking creature resembling a huge gray bushbaby-
		monkey with fierce 'baboon-like' fangs.  His large
		yellow eyes dominate a fur-covered face and soften his
		otherwise awesome appearance.  Over his matted, furry
		body he wears two chrome bandoliers, a flak jacket
		painted in a bizarre camouflage pattern, brown cloth
		shorts, and little else.  He is a two hundred year old
		WOOKIEE, and a sight to behold.  Ben speaks to the
		Wookiee in his own language, which is a little more than
		a series of grunts.  The old man points to Luke several
		times during the conversation and the huge creature
		suddenly lets out a horrifying laugh.  Luke is more than
		a little bit disconcerted, and pretends not to hear the
		conversation between Ben and the Giant Wookiee.  He is
		terrified, but tries not to show it.  He quietly sips
		his drink, looking over the crowd for a more sympathetic
		ear or whatever.

		A large, multiple-eyed CREATURE gives Luke a rough
		shove.

						CREATURE
			Negola dewaghi wooldugger?!?

		The hideous freak is obviously drunk.  Luke tries to
		ignore the Creature and turns back to his drink.  A
		short, grubby HUMAN and an even smaller RODENT-like
		beast join the belligerent monstrosity.

						HUMAN
			He doesn't like you.

						LUKE
			I'm sorry.

						HUMAN
			I don't like you either.

		The big Creature is getting agitated and yells some
		unintelligible gibberish at the now rather nervous
		young adventurer.

						HUMAN
			Don't insult us.  You just watch
			yourself.  We're wanted men.  I
			have the death sentence on twelve
			systems.

						LUKE
			I'll be careful then.

						HUMAN
			You'll be dead.

		The rodent lets out a loud grunt and everything at the
		bar moves away.  Luke tries to remain cool, but it
		isn't easy.  His three adversaries ready their weapons.
		Old Ben moves in behind Luke.

						BEN
			This little one isn't worth the 
			effort.  Come let me buy you 
			something...

		A powerful blow from the unpleasant Creature sends the
		young would-be Jedi sailing across the room, crashing
		through tables and breaking a large jug filled with a
		foul-looking liquid.  With a blood-curdling shriek, the
		monster draws a wicked chrome laser pistol from his belt
		and levels it at Old Ben.  The Bartender panics.

						BARTENDER
			No blasters!  No blasters!

		With an astounding agility, Old Ben's laser-sword sparks
		to life and in a flash an arm lies on the floor.  The
		rodent is cut in two and the giant, multiple-eyed Creature
		lies doubled, cut from chin to groin.  Ben carefully and
		precisely turns off his laser-sword and replaces it on
		his utility belt.  Luke, shaking and totally amazed at
		the old man's abilities, attempts to stand.  The entire
		fight has lasted only a matter of seconds.  The cantina
		goes back to normal, although Ben is given a respectable
		amount of room at the bar.  Luke, rubbing his bruised
		head, approaches the old man with new awe.

						BEN
			Chewbacca here is first-mate on a
			ship that might suit our needs.

		Luke is still giddy, and downs a fresh drink.

51	EXT. MOS EISLEY SPACEPORT - ALLEYWAY - DUSK		51

		Luke, Ben and the two lumbering robots follow the giant
		Wookiee along a narrow slum alleyway crowded with
		darkly-clad creatures hawking exotic goods in dingy
		little stalls.  Men, monsters and robots crouch in waste-
		filled doorways whispering and hiding from the hot winds.
		The group enters a small doorway n a decaying stone
		building at the far end of the alley.  Several robots
		guide a small herd of anteaters down the street.

52	INT. MOS EISLEY SPACEPORT - DOCKING AREA 23		52

		Chewbacca leads the group along a tall gantry over-
		looking a long Rube Goldburg-pieced together contrap-
		tion, which can only be loosely called a spaceship.
		Luke gives Old Ben a skeptical look.  Old Ben just
		smiles.  As they approach the ship, it looks even more
		homemade and shabby than it did at a distance.  The
		Wookiee calls out to someone inside the ship, but there
		is no reply.

						LUKE
			What a piece of junk.  This ship
			isn't going to get us anywhere!

		A tall figure steps out of the shadows of the imposing
		spacecraft.

		This is HAN SOLO, a tough James Dean style starpilot
		about twenty-five years old.  A cowboy in a starship
		-- simple, sentimental and cocksure of himself.

						HAN
			This ship has been to Terminus and
			back.  There isn't anyplace she
			can't go.  She may not look like 
			much, but she's special.  I built 
			her myself, and there is nothing
			faster... What can I do for you?

		Chewbacca steps forward and explains who the strangers 
		are and what they want.

						HAN
			I'm Han Solo, Captain of this
			vessel.  Who's in charge then?

						BEN
			I'm Ben Kenobi.  Luke Starkiller
			here is leading our expedition.

		Luke is taken by surprise, thinking that Ben was going
		to take care of things.  Han turns to Luke.

						HAN
			Organa Major is a rebel system.
			There will be quite a few starfleet
			patrols between here and there...
			It could be a little tricky if you
			want to avoid them... ten thousand.

						LUKE
			That's pretty steep.  We'd like to
			talk it over first.

		Ben and Luke step to one side.

						LUKE
			We don't have that kind of money.
			How much do you think I can get for
			the speeder?

						BEN
			Five, maybe.  Let me handle it.

		Ben turns back to the young starcaptain.

						BEN
			Five thousand now and five thousand 
			on arrival.

		Han thinks about this for a second.

						HAN
			You got yourself a ship.  We can leave
			as soon as you're ready.

						LUKE
			We have a little business to take care 
			of first, but it shouldn't take long.
			We'll be back shortly.

		Artoo and Threepio follow Luke and Ben as they hurry
		out of the starship hangar.

						LUKE
			What if we can't get five thousand?

		Ben glances back at Threepio.

						BEN
			We may have to sell one the
			droids.

		A great worry sweeps across Luke's face as he looks back
		at the two unaware robots faithfully following after
		them.

		Han Solo grins and slaps the monsterous wookiee across
		the back.

						HAN
			Well, old buddy, we're free, and it's
			an easy charter at that.

		Chewbacca doesn't share Han's enthusiasm, and makes a
		couple of worrisome grunts.

						HAN
			Yeah, yeah, I know we still have a
			problem, but maybe we'll be gone by
			the time H2 gets back.

		A commotion filters down from the entry gantry and Chew-
		bacca whines pessimistic comment.  A dozen or so gruff
		and grisly pirates approach the ship.  The grossest of
		the slavering hulks is JABBA THE HUTT.  His scarred face
		is a grim testimonial to his prowess as a vicious killer.

						HAN
			You're back early.

						JABBA
			A shipment of Covina just took off
			for Gordon.  I thought we might
			reroute it back here.

		He laughs maniacally.  Han is not amused.

						HAN
			You'll have to get yourself another 
			boy, Jabba.  I've got a charter.

						JABBA
			Forget it.  We settled this before,
			remember?  There's no getting out.
			Now get this 'can' started...

		It's a moment of great tension.  Han glances at the
		four pirates standing near them.  Two of the greasy
		brigands have their weapons pointed at him.  The young
		starcaptain stands firm for a few moments with his hand
		resting on his utility belt only inches from his
		blaster.  Chewbacca sways back and forth as he adjusts 
		his weight from one foot to the other.

						JABBA
			Well??

		Han turns and reluctantly boards the ship.  Jabba walks
		alongside Han and puts his arm around him.

						JABBA
			Han, after all we've been through,
			I'm disappointed we're not closer.
			You're getting soft now that the
			ship's finished.  You may have built 
			this bucket, but never forget who 
			paid for it, 'cause if you try to
			take her out again, I won't be so
			understanding.

53	INT. MOS EISLEY - USED SPEEDER LOT - GARAGE OFFICE -	53
		NIGHT

		Ben, Luke and the robots are standing in a sleazy
		used-speeder lot, talking with a tall, grotesque, insect-
		like used speeder dealer.  Only Threepio can understand
		the creature's weird buzzing dialogue.  Strange exotic
		bodies and spindly legged beasts pass by outside.  Once
		in a while a large lizard or strange animal scurries
		across the junk-strewn floor.

						THREEPIO
			He says it's the best he can do.
			Since the XP-21 came out, they just
			aren't in demand any more.

		Luke scratches his head and ponders the situation.

						LUKE
			Four thousand isn't going to do it...

		He looks at Ben, then Artoo, and finally Threepio.

						LUKE
					(to Ben)
			I think we're going to need them.
			Blast it!

						THREEPIO
			Sir, I have a couple of extra
			circuits.  Perhaps they might bring
			something.

						LUKE
			Well, ask him.  Tell him we need 
			five thousand.

		Threepio buzzes to the salesman, who shakes his head.

						THREEPIO
			Forty-seven hundred, no more.

						BEN
			He's bluffing.  He'll pay five.  Let's
			go.

		They turn and start out of the rundown showroom.

						LUKE
			This is the last place.  Shouldn't
			we just take what we can get and
			think of something else?

						BEN
			He's bluffing...

		Ben helps Artoo into the speeder as Luke climbs in the
		pilot's seat.  The speeder starts up with a loud hum,
		but before Luke can back out of the garage area, the
		insect stops them.

						THREEPIO
			Five thousand!

		Luke breaks out in a big smile and Ben manages a slight
		grin.

54	INT. PIRATE STARSHIP - MAIN PASSAGEWAY			54

		As Han and the huge Wookiee work their way past the sin-
		ister Jabba the Hutt, the pirate hands the young star-
		captain a bulky cloak.

						JABBA
			Take this back with you, boy.

		Han doesn't mask his hatred for the loathsome pirate 
		very well, but takes the cloak and follows the Chew-
		bacca toward the back of the ship.  He stops by a small
		control panel, knocking it loose with his foot.  The
		cover falls to the floor with a muted clang and the
		young mechanic looks around to see if anyone heard.

						HAN
			This is it.  If this doesn't work,
			we're diced!

		He takes a small metal bar and jams it between two cir-
		cuits, causing sparks to fly.  He quickly replaces the
		cover and Han casually heads back toward the cockpit.

55	INT. PIRATE STARSHIP - COCKPIT					55

		A short greasy looking pirate sits at the complex con-
		trols of the ship.

						PIRATE PILOT
			We're on our way...

		He pulls back on the power lever and the ship erupts
		into a cacophony of warning alarms and flashing lights.
		Smoke begins to issue from the panels.  The pilot is
		startled and begins flipping switches wildly.

						PIRATE PILOT
			I think... ahh, I have a problem here
			... one of the reactor's gone wild.
			Captain, I have a reading way over
			a thousand.

		Han rushes into the cockpit with a look of mock sur-
		prise on his face.

						HAN
			What's going on?

						PIRATE PILOT
			You tell me!  You built it.

		Han works at the control console in a vain attempt to
		figure out what's going on.

						HAN
			I don't understand it.  Look at that
			gauge.  We should have all been clown
			to micro-dust by now... Did I
			remember to...

		Before Han can finish, the pilot has fled.

56	EXT. PIRATE STARSHIP - ENTRY RAMP - NIGHT			56

		Jabba the Hutt and his crew scramble over one another
		trying to flee the starship before it goes super-nova.

57	INT. PIRATE STARSHIP - MAIN PASSAGEWAY			57

		The alarm system is suddenly cut short.  Han quickly
		replaces the control panel and turns to see a foul-
		looking pirate named MONTROSS standing over him.

						MONTROSS
			So, you've solved the problem, or
			maybe you are the problem.  Get up.
			I'm taking you to the captain.  He'll
			sting you good...

						HAN
			Not this time!

		Montross reaches for his laser-pistol, but Han is
		faster and gets the drop on him.

						HAN
			Drop it, Montross.  I always said
			you were slow.  You clumsy oaf, a
			club is more your style.

		Han struggles to his feet and leads the pirate to the
		escape hatch.

58	EXT. PIRATE STARSHIP - ENTRY RAMP				58

		Chewbacca appears at the main hatch holding a hidden
		gun on Montross as Ben, Luke and the robots saunter up
		to the starship.  The huge Wookiee lets out with a
		loud wail that startles Luke.

						BEN
			We're coming!  We're coming.

		Han rushes toward the cockpit as Chewbacca helps Ben
		aboard the starship.  The Wookiee shoves Montross out
		the hatch just as it slams shut.

						HAN
			We're a little rushed, so if you'll
			settle in, we'll be off.

		Luke is a little puzzled by all the smoke and confusion.

59	EXT. MOS EISLEY SPACEPORT - ALLEYWAY - NIGHT		59

		A lumbering Jabba the Hutt and the remains of his ter-
		rified crew stop in the street and try to collect
		themselves.

						JABBA
			What happened?  Han?  Montross,
			where's Han?  Montross?  Where is
			everybody?

		A strange assortment of alien creatures and robots watch
		Jabba from their cool alcoves along the edge of the
		street.  The ground trembles and the pirates turn to see
		the mighty pirate starship riding above the dingy slum
		dwellings.  The pirates stand dumbfounded, as the star-
		ship quickly disappears.

						JABBA
			He took the ship.  He took the ship!!

60	INT. PIRATE STARSHIP - COCKPIT					60

		Han sits back in the huge pilot's chair and puts his
		feet up on the control panel.  Chewbacca, crowded into
		the copilot's seat, mutters his amazement.

						HAN
			I know.  Sometimes I amaze myself.

		He chuckles as the surface of Utapau slowly drifts out
		of view of the cockpit windows and is replaced by a
		sparkling carpet of stars.

		Chewbacca barks a few words of caution.

						HAN
			That's the price of freedom.  But
			then again, they may never find us.
			Once we cash in on this little venture
			we'll head for the southern systems.
			He'll be a long time coming there.

		Little Artoo appears momentarily in the doorway, makes
		a few beeping remarks, then scurries away.

61	INT. PIRATE STARSHIP - SLEEP AREA				61

		Threepio helps Ben and Luke put away their gear in the
		cramped bunk area of the starship.

						LUKE
			When we get Artoo's message to them,
			you think they'll try to rescue the
			princess?

						BEN
			I doubt it.  It would be foolish for
			the rebel forces to come out of hiding.
			I know your feelings.  You'd best
			forget them.  It's for your own good.
			There will be no saving her from the
			prisons of Alderaan.  It's the heart
			of the Sith.  The Bogan Force is the
			most heavy there.

						LUKE
			But she's a member of The Twelve
			Families.  How can they hold her?

						BEN
			These are doubtful times.  The
			Empire has grown bold in its disregard
			of the...

		Suddenly Ben grabs his head and slowly collapses to the
		floor.  Luke rushes to him.

						LUKE
			What's wrong?  What's happening?

						BEN
			Keep away, I'm fine, I'm fine.

		The old man lapses into unconsciousness for several
		moments.  Luke doesn't know what to do.  Finally he goes
		to Old Ben and lifts his head.  The battered old Jedi
		shudders all over, then regains consciousness.

						LUKE
			Are you all right?

						BEN
			Yes... the Force... something horrible
			has happened.  I couldn't see what it
			was, or where it was, but it was
			terrible... terrible beyond
			description... the cry of millions
			dying at once.

		Luke helps Ben to his bunk.  He's still shaking from
		the experience.

62	INT. ALDERAAN - PRISON CELL						62

		Princess Leia is awakened by the blinding light of the
		hallway as the cell door silently slides open and
		Darth Vader enters the cell.

						VADER
			It is unfortunate you are able to
			resist my mind probe.  You are
			going through so much needless
			suffering.

		Leia watches her captor impassionately.

						VADER
			The 'Death Star' has become
			operational.  There is no force
			in the universe that can stop us now.

						LEIA
			They'll find its weakness.

						VADER
			It's too late... We already tested 
			it on Organa Major.  It appears your
			data never got through.

		Leia tries not to reveal the shock and pain, but she
		is stunned.

						LEIA
			No!...

						VADER
			It would be much easier if you were
			to tell us where the outposts are...
			Otherwise we'll be forced to destroy
			every suspicious system... What a
			waste...

		Vader starts to leave.

						LEIA
			You'll never stop them... No matter
			how many machines you build.

		The door slides closed behind Vader, leaving Leia alone
		in the darkness.

63	INT. PIRATE STARSHIP - MAIN HOLD AREA				63

		Han enters the cramped but comfortable main hold area
		of the starship and begins checking charts and various
		computer readouts.

						LUKE
			Who's the pilot?

						HAN
			It's automatic.

		Chewbacca and the two robots sit around a lighted table
		covered with many small hologram figures.  Each side of
		the table has a small computer monitor embedded in it.

		Luke and Old Ben are sitting in the corner, the old
		man apparently asleep as Luke cleans a chrome laser-
		pistol.  he acts like it's brand new.  he seems very
		proud of it.

		Chewbacca seems very pleased with himself as he rests his
		lanky fur-covered arms over his head.  Artoo immediately
		reaches up and taps the computer with his stubby claw
		hand, causing one of the hologram figures to walk to a
		new square.  A sudden frown crosses Chewbacca's face and
		he begins yelling gibberish at the tiny robot.  Threepio
		intercedes on behalf of his small companion and begins to
		argue with the huge Wookiee.

						LUKE
					(to Threepio)
			Let him have it.  You're winning
			anyway.  It doesn't make any difference.

						THREEPIO
			I know, sir, but it's the principle
			of the thing.

		Luke sights down the barrel of his new pistol.  Old
		Ben opens his eyes.  It's obvious he wasn't asleep.

						LUKE
					(to Ben)
			Are you sure you don't need it?

						BEN
			I rarely use it any more.  I have
			the Force.  The Force is more
			powerful than any pistol.  You
			shouldn't put too much faith in that
			weapon.  Work on becoming aware of
			the Force... learn to feel its
			presence within you.  Try to sense
			what it's telling you.  It's the
			only thing you can rely on.

						LUKE
			What do I do?

						BEN
			All you have to do is lose your
			thinking self.  Don't focus on
			anything.  Let your body do your
			thinking... You have to learn to act
			on what you feel, not what you think
			... If I had the crystal, it would
			be much easier.  You could feel the
			Force immediately... but for now,
			let yourself go.  You'll pick it
			up... and someday you'll have no
			need for that pistol either.

		Han has been overhearing what Ben has been telling Luke
		and obviously has a low opinion of the Force of Others.

						HAN
			I'd keep that thing close just in
			case, if I were you... I've been
			around from one end of the galaxy
			to the other and believe me this
			Force of Others stuff may make for
			good religion, but there is no
			substitute for a good weapon at
			your side.

						LUKE
			You don't believe in the Force?

						HAN
			Sorcery!  I believe in myself...
			I determine my destiny, not some
			mystical energy field.

						BEN
			Well, we'll see...

						HAN
			You might get your stuff together.
			We'll be coming up on Organa Major
			soon.

64	INT. PIRATE STARSHIP - COCKPIT					64

		The cockpit is alive with humming meters and softly
		buzzing readouts.  Han is busy at the controls as Luke
		looks on in wonder.

						HAN
			It checks out again.  There is no
			mistake...

		Old Ben enters the crowded cockpit.

						BEN
			What is it?

						LUKE
			He can't find Organa Major.

		Han is rather grim-faced.

						HAN
			I found it... It's just not there.

						LUKE
			What are you saying?

						BEN
			Organa Major has been destroyed.

		Ben moves in and studies the monitors.

						HAN
			What's left of it is contaminated.
			That's it there.  Look at those
			radiation readouts!  It's impossible.
			I've never seen anything like it.
			What's going on?

		Luke sits back and stares blankly at the monitors.

						BEN
			The Empire must have gotten here
			first.

						HAN
			The planet has been totally blown
			away!  It would have taken a
			thousand ships with a lot more fire
			power than I've ever seen... If the
			Empire had a new weapon that could
			do this... I would have heard
			something... I'd know about it.

						BEN
			Well, now you know... The enemy is
			on the move.  We haven't much time.

						HAN
			Well, I've brought you here.  What
			now?

						BEN
			We have to find he rebels... What
			we're carrying belongs to them.

						HAN
			Their bases are very well hidden.
			All the power of the Empire can't
			find them... Do you know where they
			are?

		Ben shakes his head sadly.

						BEN
			No, not anymore.

						HAN
			I'm not taking you on an impossible
			search across the galaxy... I was
			only paid to get you here and now
			you're here.  I'll take my other 
			five thousand and you're on your 
			own... I'll leave you on the nearest
			system.

						LUKE
			You can't!  We've come this far.  We
			must find them...

						HAN
			Why?

						BEN
			Well, for one reason, we don't have
			your other five thousand.

						HAN
			Who's going to pay me then?

						BEN
			I think there are some things we
			should talk about.

						HAN
			I'm beginning not to like you.

65	INT. PIRATE STARSHIP - MAIN HOLD AREA				65

		Little Artoo is standing on the gaming table projecting
		the princess into the middle of the group.  Han has a
		perplexed look on his face as he ponders the hologram.
		Ben leans back in his chair quietly waiting, while Luke
		watches the princess with a wistful, smile, far-away look.
		Finally the hologram ends.

						HAN
			How much do you think she's talking
			about?

						BEN
			A million at least... If this robot
			has information related to the
			destruction of Organa Major, you'll
			be able to name the reward...

						HAN
			Anything I want!  Now that's
			interesting.

		He thinks about this for a few moments.  Luke begins to
		get a little edgy.

						LUKE
			Maybe you should just drop us off.
			I'm sure we can find someone willing
			to take the risk.

						HAN
			All right, all right!
			You've got a ship!  But where do
			we go from here?  They probably took
			her to find the hidden bases... I
			don't see how we can find the rebels
			before she breaks.  The Empire has
			already beat us out.

						BEN
			She's part of the royal family.
			They won't get any information from
			her... She knows the art of mind
			control... She's a swan sensana.

		Ben gets lost in his thoughts for a few moments.

						BEN
			But she is the only link between us
			and the hidden bases.

						LUKE
			You mean we should go after her!...

						BEN
			I didn't say that, but it appears to
			be a logical alternative.

						HAN
			Now wait a minute.  She's in Alderaan!

		Ben is thinking and doesn't hear Han's protest.  He
		turns to Luke.

						HAN
			No, it's impossible... No one, and I
			mean no one would venture anywhere
			near the Alderaan system... I'm a
			free booter, not revolutionary.  You're
			aboard the wrong ship, son!

						LUKE
			Maybe the fact that no one would go
			there voluntarily could help us.
			They probably don't think anyone
			would dare try.

						HAN
			Don't you believe it.

						BEN
			Luke's got a point...
			... Fear is their greatest defense...
			I doubt if the actual security there
			is much greater than on Aquilae or
			Sullust, and what there is is most
			likely directed toward large-scale
			assault.

						HAN
			This isn't a game, you know.

						LUKE
			How many more systems have to get
			blown away before you have no place
			to hide and are forced to fight...
			Don't you realize what's going on?

		Han is slightly embarrassed by Luke.

						HAN
			Kid, you take the glory and the good
			intentions and I'll take the reward.

						BEN
			Fear is their greatest weapon.

						HAN
			I'm not afraid of anything...

		Everyone looks at Han, and he instantly regrets what
		he has said.

66	INT. PIRATE STARSHIP - COCKPIT - APPROACHING ALDERAAN    66

		The cockpit is a quiet hum of computers as Han works
		diligently on a complex calculation.  Chewbacca enters
		the cabin just as the ship begins to shudder violently.
		After a few moments the buffeting stops.

						HAN
			We've just passed into the first
			perimeter.  It won't be long now.

		Chewbacca grunts an acknowledgement and points to a
		very large and bright star out the front window bay.

						HAN
			There it is!  Alderaan, the prison 
			system.  Take over.
			I'm going to go back and see if
			they have come up with a plan, or if
			we're just going to cruise on in
			until they disintegrate us.

67	INT. PIRATE STARSHIP - MAIN HOLD AREA				67

		Luke stands in the middle of the small hold area.  He
		seems frozen in place, a humming laser-sword held high
		over his head.  Ben watches him from the corner, study-
		ing his movements.  Han enters and watches with a bit
		of smugness.

		Suspended at eye level -- about ten feet in front of
		Luke -- a chrome baseball covered with antenna hovers
		slowly in a wide arc.  The ball floats to one side of
		the youth, then to the other.  Suddenly it makes a
		lightning swift lunge and stops within a few feet of
		Luke's face.  Luke doesn't move, and the ball backs off.
		It slowly moves behind the boy, then makes another quick
		lunge, this time emitting a blood red laser beam as it
		attacks.

		Luke sparks to life.  With one amazingly swift move, he
		turns and swings his laser-sword, deflecting the beam.
		The seeker shuts off and lands on the floor.

		Ben is pleased, and Han is quite impressed.

						BEN
			You have your father's style.  You've
			done very well.

						HAN
			Not bad.

		Luke is sort of embarrassed with all the attention.

						LUKE
			Well, I practice a lot...

						HAN
			You're good with 'remotes,' but how
			are you against something living?

						LUKE
			I don't know... I've never fought
			anyone.

		Han smiles knowingly.

						BEN
			Enough.  Now try it without thinking.
			It's no good talking about the Force.
			You must learn to feel it.  Wear this.

		Ben places a large helmet on Luke's head which covers
		his eyes.

						LUKE
			I can't see!  How can I fight?

						BEN
			Try to feel it.  Use the Force...

						LUKE
			I can't do it.  I'll get hit.

						BEN
			Stop thinking, and start feeling.
			Let yourself go.

		Han skeptically shakes his head as Ben throws the
		seeker into the air.  The ball shoots straight up in
		the air, then drops like a rock.  Luke swings the laser-
		sword around blindly missing the seeker, which fires off
		a laser bolt, which hits Luke square on the seat of his
		pants.  He lets out a painful yell and attempts to hit
		the seeker, coming amazingly close, but he is hit
		several more times before he manages to finally deflect
		one of the bolts.  The ball ceases firing and moves back
		to its original position.  Luke removes the helmet and
		is a sweaty, exhausted mess.

						BEN
			See, once you let yourself go you
			can do it.  You'll get it.

						LUKE
			I don't get it, but I guess I did
			block it.

						HAN
			I'd call it a lucky move.

		Han in a split second draws his laser-pistol and blasts
		the seeker.  The ship begins to shudder, then a distant
		warning signal goes off.

						HAN
			We're into the second perimeter.
			They'll be coming out to blast us
			shortly.  I was wondering if you
			had some kind of a plan or are we
			going to try to blast our way in?

						BEN
			Check your data banks for all the
			information you have on Imperial
			procedures.  Both of you will have
			to learn...

						HAN
			We're going to get in by studying
			Imperial procedures?  I don't like
			it.

						BEN
			All right then, we'll use your plan.

		Han slumps in his seat with a dejected look.

						HAN
			I'll get the information.

						BEN
			... and I want you to start cleaning
			the equipment out of the scan-
			shielded compartments.

						HAN
			What do you want with our scan-proof
			lockers?

68	INT. ALDERAAN - CONTROL ROOM					68

		A CONTROLLER sits in a huge complex control room with
		massive screens projecting maps of various star
		systems.  An Imperial COMMANDER sits next to him.

						CONTROLLER
			No reply on any circuits... It's
			drifting on a point twenty-seven
			skew.  It's not close enough to
			identify.

						COMMANDER
			Alert squad five, but hold them
			until we know what it is.

						CONTROLLER
			Should we alert the Sith Lords?

						COMMANDER
			I'll make a report later.

						CONTROLLER
			As close as we can make out, it
			appears to be a Corellian gypsy
			vessel... It's not under power.

						COMMANDER
			Send one squad up.

69	INT. ALDERAAN - READY ROOM						69

		Chaos.  Red scramble lights are flashing.  Alert horns
		and attack buzzers create an unbelievable cacophony.
		Imperial starpilots in black armored spacesuits grab
		their helmets and space packs as they scramble out the
		door.

70	INT. ALDERAAN - HALLWAY						70

		Pilots dash in unison to a line of small auxiliary
		corridors that lead to Imperial "tie" fighters.  Tech-
		nical crews scurry here and there loading last minute
		armament and unlocking power cables.

71	EXT. SPACE AROUND PLANET ALDERAAN				71

		The long ornate pirate starship approached the gray
		gaseous planet of Alderaan.  The ship is not propelled,
		but simply drifts crab-like toward the planet.  As it
		approaches the surface, huge billowing clouds extend
		out like menacing tentacles.  The peacefulness of this
		nebulous idyll is broken by the increasing wail of ion
		engines.  Suddenly four sleek spacefighters from the
		Imperial third fleet burst from the huge cumulus range.
		The craft are small cylindrical power shells dominated
		by two huge solar fins.  They are flying in a tight
		formation.  Then two bank steeply and head toward the
		drifting starship.

72	INT. IMPERIAL FIGHTER - COCKPIT					72

		The Imperial fighters are one-man craft crammed with
		sophisticated electronic weaponry.

		The pilot is cold and professional as his craft closes
		in on the drifting starship.

						PILOT
			No life forms appear on the scanner.
			Escape pods four, seven and oh-three
			have been jettisoned.  Life systems
			are still functioning.  It appears
			to be in good shape... Should we 
			destroy it, or attempt salvage?...
			Do you copy?

73	INT. ALDERAAN - CONTROL ROOM					73

		The controller looks to the Commander for instructions.

						COMMANDER
			We don't get many visitors.  Let's
			take a look at it.

						CONTROLLER
					(into intercom)
			Send out a boarding party.  Full
			assault gear.

74	EXT. ALDERAAN - CLOUD SEA						74

		Several of the tiny Imperial fighters drift in orbit
		around the pirate starship as a block-like boarding
		vessel attaches itself to the underside of the disabled
		starship.

75	INT. PIRATE STARSHIP - HALLWAYS					75

		Entering through an escape hatch, several heavily armed
		Imperial stormtroopers cautiously work their way down
		the main corridor of the pirate starship.  As they are
		about to enter the cockpit area, they hear a loud 
		clanking movement.  The ferocious stormtroopers freeze
		and simultaneously direct their awesome weapons at the
		cockpit hatchway.  Two of the troopers start to edge
		their way toward the cockpit.  The tension becomes
		almost palpable, until finally the gangling, bronze
		Threepio pops his "Art Deco" head out of the hatchway.

						THREEPIO
			Greetings!  I'm See Threepio, Human
			Cyborg relations.  I'm glad you
			arrived.
			I've been lost for some time.  My
			master and the crew departed after
			we passed through a solar plague
			zone.  I've been drifting ever since.
			The operation of astro-vehicles is
			not within my capacity...

		The OFFICER talks to his commander on his head phones.

						OFFICER
			Apparently a plague scare... no
			contamination.... We found a droid...
			proceeding to check out the rest of
			the ship.

		The Officer indicates that Threepio should move out of
		the cockpit.  Two guards grab the puzzled robot.

						OFFICER
					(to guard)
			Hold this thing for inspection.

76	INT. PIRATE STARSHIP - COCKPIT					76

		The Officer enters the cockpit.  Threepio is completely
		confused as the stormtroopers rush around completely
		ignoring him.  The troops search the ship with small
		hand scanners.  The Officer sits in the pilot's seat
		of the deserted ship and begins to feed information
		into the computer.  He opens a com-line to the main base.

						OFFICER
			Base one, this is Kuro four.  The
			aft generator systems are out, but
			most everything else seems to be in
			order... I think I can bring it in 
			on its own power.

		A TROOPER enters the cockpit.

						TROOPER
			All clean, sir.  We couldn't get
			into some of the supply lockers.
			Should we blast them open.

						OFFICER
			Let the scavenger crews take care
			of it.

77	EXT. ALDERAAN - CLOUD SEA						77

		The towering white oxide clouds pass, revealing the
		Imperial city of Alderaan.  The magnificent domed and
		gleaming city is perched, mushroom-like, on a tall
		spire which disappears deep into the misty surface of
		the planet.  The little procession of Imperial "tie"
		fighters follows the larger pirate ship toward the
		city.  The Imperial Officer guides the ship toward one
		of the numerous huge open bays that ring the specta-
		cular city.

78	INT. ALDERAAN - PRISON CELL CORRIDOR				78

		A cell door silently slides open revealing the uncon-
		scious body of the princess slumped on a table-like
		bed.  Vader and two OFFICERS exit the cell and the door
		silently slides shut again.

						VADER
			We'll get nothing more out of her.

						1ST OFFICER
			The hidden bases have to be somewhere
			in the southwest.  That's something...
			I'll start a search operation.

						VADER
			Start a destroy operation... Wipe out
			every system in that sector if you
			have to.

		The Commander approaches the Dark Lord and bows.

						COMMANDER
			We've picked up a Corellian ship which
			was hit by plague.  It's been sterilized
			and we're bringing it in.

						VADER
			Don't worry about that.  Alert all
			commands to prepare the death star.
			We're going into the southwest.

		The Commander exits.  The Officer points back to Leia's
		cell.

						1ST OFFICER
			What about her?

						VADER
			Terminate her... but make it slow.
			We might still get some information.

79	INT. ALDERAAN - MAIN FORWARD BAY					79

		The pirate starship rests in a huge hangar bay.  Thirty
		or so guards march up to the craft as a ramp lowers and
		the boarding troops disembark.

						BOARDING OFFICER
			It's just a piece of drift junk.  It
			has some interesting innovations
			though.  Send in a research team
			before you start the salvage operation.
			Post your guards.

80	INT. PIRATE STARSHIP - HALLWAY					80

		A lone trooper runs through the hallway heading for the
		exit.  In a few moments, all is quiet.  The muffled
		sounds of a distant officer giving orders finally fade.
		Threepio sneaks down the hallway, pulls on a latch, and
		a panel on a row of low cabinets crashes to the floor.
		Han Solo's head pokes out of the hold and looks around
		the hallway.  He then pulls himself out of his cramped
		quarters and struts around, stretching his legs.  A
		second locker breaks open and Luke emerges.  Chewbacca
		pokes his furry head out of the first locker and Han
		tells him the way is clear.

						HAN
			This is ridiculous.  I tell you it's
			not going to work.  We're never going
			to get out alive.

		Ben Kenobi sticks his head out of one of the lockers.

						BEN
			Darth Vader is on this system.  I
			can feel him.  I can feel the Kiber
			Crystal.

						HAN
			Is that good or bad?

						BEN
			It's not good... unless I could find
			the Crystal.  Then it could be very
			good.

						LUKE
			What about the princess?

						BEN
			You go after the princess.
			I am an old man and would be of little 
			help.  I must try to find the Crystal.

						LUKE
			I'm not going alone!

		Luke is suddenly seized with panic.  He turns to Han.

						HAN
			Don't look at me.  I'm just a pilot.
			I got you here... You've got to do 
			the rest.

						BEN
			There is a greater risk in staying 
			here, you know.  If you don't find
			the princess, then the whole trip 
			was for nothing... wasn't it?

						HAN
			I'm not going out there.

		He slams a panel to the deck and immediately regrets it.
		Everyone looks around as if an alarm had gone off.

81	INT. ALDERAAN - MAIN FORWARD BAY					81

		Two GUARDS stand on either side of the ramp leading to
		the pirate starship.  One of the guards hears something
		inside the spacecraft.  The second guard hears it also
		and speaks into the headphone in his helmet.

						SECOND GUARD
			We've picked up a disturbance
			inside the starship.  Proceeding to
			investigate.

		The two Guards enter the spacecraft.

82-83	INT. ALDERAAN - MAIN BAY GANTRY - CONTROL TOWER		82-83

		In a small control tower above the starship a GANTRY
		OFFICER speaks into his intercom.

						GANTRY OFFICER
			What is it?

						SECOND GUARD (V.O.)
			I don't hear it now... It must have 
			been the droid... Wait... what?

		The transmission goes dead.  The Gantry Officer
		switches to another channel.  The Officer's aide looks
		up from his desk.

						GANTRY OFFICER
			T-4, come in, T-4... Do you copy?
			Are you all right?

		There is a bit of static and a heavily filtered voice
		comes on.

						LUKE'S VOICE
			We're fine... Com-link jammed.

						GANTRY OFFICER
			Find anything?

						LUKE
			Nothing...

		The Gantry Officer gives his aide a puzzled look, then
		speaks into the com-link.

						GANTRY OFFICER
			T-4, you sound a little funny... T-4,
			what's your operating code?... T-4,
			are you there?

		The only thing that comes over the com-link is static.
		The Gantry Officer gets up and heads for the door.

						GANTRY OFFICER
			Take over.  It could just be another
			bad transmitter, but I'd better check.

		As the Officer approaches the door, it slides open
		revealing the towering Chewbacca.  The Gantry Officer
		is in a momentary state of shock, as he stumbles back-
		ward.  With a bone-chilling howl, the giant Wookiee
		flattens the Officer with one blow.  The aide imme-
		diately reaches for his pistol, but is blasted by
		Han, which sets off a series of small explosions on
		the control panel.  Han and Luke enter the room dressed
		as Imperial stormtroopers.

						LUKE
			Between his howling and your blasting
			everything in sight, the entire city
			is going to know we're here.

						HAN
			Good!  I prefer a straight fight to
			all this sneaking around.

		Ben feeds some information into the computer, and a
		map of the city appears on the monitor.  He begins to
		inspect it carefully.  Threepio and Artoo look over
		the control panel.  Artoo finds something that makes
		him whistle wildly.

						THREEPIO
			We've found it, sir.  Bless the
			maker, this control board has one.

		Han and Luke rush over to the robots.  Chewbacca busies
		himself with hanging the Gantry Officer by his toes.

						LUKE
			Plug him in.  Let's see what we get.

		Artoo punches his claw arm into the computer socket and
		the vast Imperial brain network comes to life, feeding
		information to the little robot.  After a few moments
		he beeps something to Threepio.

						THREEPIO
			Level five, Detention block A-23,
			cell 2187.  She's still alive...

						LUKE
			Send feed-back into the control
			sensors in that Detention block.

						BEN
			That's straight through the central
			core... up toward the top of the 
			city... Once you've got her, avoid
			the main transports, they'll shut
			down immediately.  Your only chance 
			is through the service shafts.
			There are no sensors there... All
			right now, get going, you don't 
			have time.  I hope you can remember
			everything.

						HAN
			We'll be back before you are, old
			man.

						BEN
			May the Force be with you.

		Old Ben slips out of the control bay and disappears
		down a long gray hallway.  Han whistles for Chewbacca
		to join them.  Luke binds the huge Wookiee with elec-
		tronic cuffs.  The Wookiee has a worried and slightly
		frightened look on his face.  Han reassures him and
		straightens his jacket.

						THREEPIO
			Luke, sir!  pardon me for asking
			... but, ah... what are we to do if
			someone should discover us here?

						HAN
			Hope they don't have blasters.

						THREEPIO
			That isn't very reassuring.

		Luke and Han put on their armored helmets and start off
		into the giant Imperial city of Alderaan.

84-85	INT. ALDERAAN - DETENTION AREA - ELEVATOR TUBE		84-85

		Han and Luke try to look inconspicuous in their armored
		suits as they wait for a vacuum elevator to arrive.
		Troops, bureaucrats and robots bustle about ignoring
		the trio completely.  Only a few give the giant Wookiee
		a curious glance.  Finally a small elevator arrives
		and the trio enter.  A bureaucrat races to get aboard
		also, but is signaled away by Han.  The door to the
		pod-like vehicle slides closed and it takes off
		through a vacuum tube.  Han rubs his hand across a
		series of small holes.

						HAN
			Gas... Old Ben was definitely right.
			If they discover us, we'll never get
			out this way.

		He gives Luke a skeptical look.

86-87	INT. ALDERAAN - HALLWAY AND SUB-HALLWAY			86-87

		Old Ben walks very quietly behind two Imperial officers
		who don't seem to be aware of his presence.  They pass
		several stormtroopers and a robot similar to Threepio
		but no one appears to notice Ben.  The old man deftly
		slips down a sub-hallway and hides in a shallow alcove
		as a patrol of twenty guards passes.  He rushes down an
		ever smaller hallway and disappears.

88	INT. ALDERAAN - DETENTION AREA - DUNGEON			88

		The giant Wookiee and his two guards enter the old,
		gray security station.  Guards and laser gates are
		everywhere.  Han whispers to Luke under his breath.

						HAN
			This isn't going to work.

						LUKE
			Why didn't you say so before.

						HAN
			I think I did.

		A tall, grim-looking OFFICER approaches the trio.

						OFFICER
			What code is this?

						LUKE
			I've got it here somewhere... It's
			SPT 188544.  You can check it through
			the... ahh, oh yes, lex-321.

						OFFICER
			It will take a while -- the cross
			mode is acting up... getting feedback
			from somewhere.

		The Officer goes back to his console and begins to punch
		in the information.  There are only three other troopers
		in the area.  Luke and Han survey the situation, checking
		all of the alarms, laser gates and camera eyes.  Han
		unfastens one of Chewbacca's electronic cuffs and shrugs
		to Luke.

		Suddenly Chewbacca throws up his hands and lets out with
		one of his ear-piercing howls.  He grabs Han's laser-
		sword and ignites it, pushing Han against the wall.

						HAN
			Look out!  He's loose!

		The startled guards are momentarily dumbfounded.  Luke
		and Han have already pulled out their laser-pistols
		and are blasting away at the terrifying Wookiee.  Their
		barrage of laser fire misses Chewbacca, but hits the
		camera eyes, laser gate controls and the Imperial guards.
		The Officer is the last of the guards to fall under the
		laser fire, just as he is about to push the alarm
		system.  Luke rushes over to the com-link system, which
		is screeching questions about what is going on.  Han and
		Chewbacca disappear down one of the sub-hallways.

						LUKE
			A Wookiee broke loose up here, but
			we've subdued him... There is a lot
			of damage, and three, no four,
			casualties...

						INTERCOM VOICE
			We'll send a squad up.

						LUKE
			No need, everything's under control.

						INTERCOM VOICE
			With four casualties?!

						LUKE
			The... ah door's jammed.  Give us
			a few minutes to get it fixed.

						INTERCOM VOICE
			Who is this?  What's your operating...

		Luke cuts off the com-link and yells down the cell row
		to Han.

						LUKE
			Hurry up.  I think we're going to
			have company.

89-90	INT. ALDERAAN - PRISON CORRIDOR - CELL			89-90

		Han stops before cell 2187 and yells something to Chew-
		bacca, who covers his face as the young pirate blasts
		the door away  with his laser pistol.  When the smoke
		clears, Han looks in the cell and an expression of
		horror crosses his face.

						HAN
			'Holy Maker,' NO!

		Suspended inside the cell by invisible rays, a bloody
		and mutilated Leia Organa hangs upside down.  A strange
		yellow glow radiates from her eyes.  Chewbacca rushes 
		into the cell past the dazed Han.  The Wookiee yells
		something and Han comes to, firing his pistol at a
		small control box in the wall.  The unconscious princess
		drops like a rock into the giant Wookiee's arms.  Chew-
		bacca slings her over his shoulder and joins Han in the
		hallway.

						HAN
			Luke, we've got her, let's go...

91-92	INT. ALDERAAN - DETENTION AREA - DUNGEON - HALLWAY	91-92

		A series of explosions knock a hole in the wall through
		which several Imperial troops begin to emerge.  Luke
		fires his laser pistol at them through the smoke and
		flames.  He turns and runs down the cell hallway.  He
		takes a small com-link transmitter from his belt.

						LUKE
			See Threepio -- See Threepio -- Jam
			the emergency communications network.
			Monitor what you can... What was that?
			I didn't copy...

93	INT. ALDERAAN - SUB-HALLWAY						93

		Han pulls up the rusty grate leading to a service pas-
		sageway and helps Chewbacca lift the inert princess
		into the black tunnel.

94	INT. ALDERAAN - MAIN BAY GANTRY - CONTROL TOWER		94

		Threepio paces the control center as little Artoo beeps
		and whistles a blue streak.  Threepio yells into the
		small com-link transmitter.

						THREEPIO
			I said, all systems have been alerted
			to your presence, sir.  I respectfully
			suggest you return at once...

		The transmitter squawks a short reply and Threepio peeks
		out the tower window at the starship.  All is quiet.  He
		then moves to the door and it slides open a crack.
		Several troops rush past, yelling and shouting order.
		Threepio slams the door shut and pushes the lock lever.
		Someone begins banging on the door.

						THREEPIO
			Oh, no!

95	INT. ALDERAAN - HALLWAY LEADING TO CRYSTAL CHAMBER	95

		Ben starts into the hallway leading to the crystal cham-
		ber, just as two Sith Lords are leaving.  the old man
		ducks into the nearest doorway which opens and swallows
		him up.

96	INT. ALDERAAN - CLASSROOM						96

		Ben finds himself in a small conference room filled
		with about a dozen or so bureaucrats listening to an
		instructor who is explaining a type of technical
		philosophy.  The class turns and stares at the old man.
		Ben raises his hands and all the bureaucrats, including
		the instructor, begin coughing and grabbing at their
		throats.  They are unable to breather and eventually
		collapse on the floor.

97	INT. ALDERAAN - HALLWAY LEADING TO THE CRYSTAL CHAMBER   97

		One of the Sith Lords stops in the hallway opposite the
		classroom door.

						1ST LORD
			What is it?

						2ND LORD
			Do you feel that?

						1ST LORD
			I don't feel anything.

						2ND LORD
			Maybe you're too young.  It's the 
			Force... If I didn't know better I'd
			say we were in the presence of a Jedi
			knight.

		The first Sith Lord puts his hand to his ear as a message
		comes through on his helmet intercom.

						1ST LORD
			They're calling for us again on the
			prison level.

		The two Dark Lords hurry off down the hallway and Old
		Ben silently exits the classroom.

98	INT. ALDERAAN - DUNGEON - PASSAGEWAY				98

		Luke leads Han and the Wookiee down the ever-darkening,
		narrow passageway.  Han and Luke switch on small lights
		in their gunbelts.  The rhythmic marching of storm-
		troopers seem to be getting louder.  Muffled voices can
		be heard.  Luke stops before an intersecting hallway.

						HAN
			They're right behind us.  Which way?

		Luke grabs his belt com-link and attempts to contact
		Threepio.

						LUKE
			See Threepio, do you read me?
			Compute our position... See Threepio?...

		Static and no reply.

						LUKE
			Something has happened to them.
			Let's try this way...

						HAN
			Let's try this way!  Holy Maker.

						LUKE
			See Threepio, come in, See Threepio.
			I wonder where they are??  See
			Threepio...

		As they descend into the bowels of the city, the eerie,
		slimy corridor becomes narrower and filled ankle-deep
		with water and ooze.

99	INT. MAIN BAY GANTRY - CONTROL TOWER				99

		A soft buzzer and the muted voice of Luke calling out
		for See Threepio can be heard on Threepio's hand com-
		link which is sitting on the deserted computer console.
		Artoo and Threepio are nowhere in sight.  Suddenly there
		is a great explosion and the door to the control tower
		flies across the floor.  Four armed stormtroopers enter
		the chamber.  A muffled voice can be heard coming from
		one of the supply cabinets.

						THREEPIO
			Help!  Help!  Let us out.

		The troops inspect the dead bodies and release Threepio
		from the supply cabinets.  Artoo is shut down and does
		not move.

						THREEPIO
			They're madman!  They are heading
			for the prison level.  If you hurry,
			you might catch them... they just
			left.

		The troops hustle off down the hallway, leaving two
		guards to watch over the control room.

		Threepio takes a round disk-like object and attaches it
		to Artoo's head, which lifts him a foot off the ground
		and moves him toward the door.

						THREEPIO
			All this excitement has burned out
			my counterpart.  If you don't mind,
			I have to take him down to maintenance.

		The guard nods and Threepio with little Artoo in tow
		hurries out the door.

100	INT. ALDERAAN - HALLWAY						100

		Artoo sparks to life and the two robots scurry off down
		the empty hallway.

						THREEPIO
			That was too close.  Now we'll have
			to find another control socket an
			plug you back in or everything is
			lost.

101	INT. ALDERAAN - CRYSTAL CHAMBER					101

		Old Ben carefully approaches the pedestal on which the
		Kiber Crystal is resting.  He gracefully sidesteps a
		series of invisible beams.  It looks as if he is doing
		a strange dance.  Ben stops about five feet in front of
		the Crystal.  His eyes light up, and it appears he is
		renewed with a new inner strength.

		Ben lifts his arms and slowly the Crystal begins to
		rise off the pedestal and move toward the old Jedi.
		The intense glow of the magical stone increases as it
		passes through an invisible protective death ray.
		Just before it reaches Ben's hand, it passes through
		a blue beam that sets off an alarm which instantan-
		eously slams the door shut and the room glows a bright 
		red.

102-103   INT. ALDERAAN - DUNGEON - PASSAGEWAY				102-103

		The passageway has gotten so small that Han, Luke and
		Chewbacca must walk sideways.  The princess is standing
		between Luke and the Wookiee and is semi-conscious.

102-103   CONTINUED:									102-103

						LUKE
			I think she's going to be all right.

						HAN
			Not if this tunnel deadends.

		Suddenly the way opens up to a wide, low-ceilinged
		corridor that is filled with water about waist high.
		At the far end of the tunnel is a small light.  Chew-
		bacca puts the princess back over his shoulder.

						HAN
			I see a light.  We may get out of 
			this yet.

		The princess wakes up and is thoroughly confused by
		her surroundings.

						LEIA
			What is it?  What's going on?  Where
			are we?

						LUKE
			You're safe.  We've come to get you
			out of here... Just relax.

		The two boys wade into the submerged corridor, but Chew-
		bacca won't enter.  He frantically begins sniffing the
		air and jabbers something to Han.

						HAN
			There is no choice.  The troops are
			right behind us.  Come on.

		Chewbacca won't budge.  He seems terribly afraid of
		something in the water.  Han wades back and pulls the
		huge Wookiee carrying the princess into the water.

						LUKE
			Is he afraid of the water?

						HAN
			No, he smells something... but we
			haven't time to worry about it now.

		The group moves forward through the dark corridor,
		unaware of the ominous ripples on the water's surface.

		The giant Wookiee stops and howls something to Han.  The
		young starcaptain talks to the frightened creature and
		eventually calms him down.  The dim light at the end of
		the corridor glimmers and becomes stronger.

		A loud, horrible, inhuman moan works its way up from
		the murky depths followed by a huge jellyfish-like form,
		which shoots out of the water and towers above the pet-
		rified group.  Chewbacca lets out a terrified howl and
		begins to back away.  Han and Luke stand fast with their
		laser-pistols drawn.  The Wookiee is cowering near one
		of the walls with the groggy princess on his shoulder.

		Han fires directly at the center of the beast.  His laser
		bolt passes through the huge creature and explodes against
		a far wall.  The light from the blast reveals a little
		more of the Dia Nogu, which is transparent with long
		slimy tentacles.

						HAN
			It's not a natural creature... our
			weapons are no good against it.

		The huge shape, breathing loud and deep, submerges again
		and the telltale ripples head toward Luke.

						HAN
			Watch it!  Move back.

						LUKE
			Get Chewbacca.  Try to get around it.
			I'll draw it away.

		Han turns and wades back to Chewbacca, who is huddled
		against the wall.  The Wookiee is shaking and wailing
		like a small child.  In the thin light provided by the
		small door at the end of the passageway, the faint out-
		line of the Dia Nogu can be seen as it swims by Luke.

						LUKE
			It just passed me.  Maybe it's
			harmless.  I'm gong to try for that
			opening.

		Suddenly Luke is yanked underwater.  Han has blindfolded
		Chewbacca and is attempting to lead the Wookiee and the
		princess toward the lighted opening at the far end of
		the tunnel.

						HAN
			Luke!  Where are you?  What happened?

		Luke surfaces with a gasp of air and thrashing of limbs
		with a membrane tentacle wrapped around his throat.

						LUKE
			Get gong!  I'll keep it busy.

		Luke is dragged under again.  Han grabs the princess and
		makes his way around the treacherous creature to the
		small opening at the end of the passageway.  Luke bobs
		to the surface with a severed tentacle dangling around
		his neck.

						LUKE
			It's only light that doesn't affect
			it.  Solid things, like rocks, can
			hurt it!  Fire above him!

						HAN
			Move out of the way!

		Luke tries to swim away, but is grabbed by the creature.
		Han fires his laser-pistol into the ceiling above the
		creature, knocking rocks and debris on top of it.  The
		Dia Nogu thrashes about for a few moments, then the water's
		calm, and all is quiet.  There is no sign of Luke.  Han
		bows his head as the hope drains from his face.  Chewbacca
		lifts the princess through the small opening in the wall,
		then struggles to squeeze himself through also.  Han
		starts to turn back toward the escape hole, when Luke
		pops out of the water with a gasp and starts swimming
		like mad toward the starcaptain.

						LUKE
			It's still alive.  It's gone crazy.
			Get out of here!

		The boys rush up to the small escape port only to find
		Chewbacca stuck.  Luke begins pushing the Wookiee as Han
		turns and fires off another blast at the ceiling.  A rush
		of rock and debris temporarily holds off the charging
		Dia Nogu.  Han helps Luke push Chewbacca through the hole.
		Then the two boys scamper to safety just before the fear-
		some creature begins another charge.

104	INT. ALDERAAN - UNUSED HALLWAY					104

		The group is standing in a dusty unused hallway.  The
		Dia Nogu bangs against the opening and a long slimy
		tentacle works its way out of the doorway searching for
		a victim.  Han aims his pistol.  The princess is groggy,
		but conscious.  She takes command of the situation.

						LEIA
			No, wait!!  They'll hear...

		Han fires at the doorway, creating an avalanche of
		rubble which buries the monster.

		The noise of the blast echoes relentlessly throughout
		the empty passageway.  Luke simply shakes his head in
		disgust.

						LEIA
			Listen, blockhead, I don't know
			where you came from, and I'm
			grateful, but from now on you do
			as I tell you.

		Han is stunned at the command of the petite young girl.
		Luke bows before the princess.

						LUKE
			I am Luke Starkiller at your service.

						LEIA
			There'll be time for that later.
			Now let's get out of here.

		The group moves swiftly down the deserted corridor.  The
		awkward silence is broken by Han, who's about had it with 
		the princess.

						HAN
			I don't care if the entire city heard
			me.  All this sneaking around is going
			to get us killed.  I'd rather fight
			my way out.

105	INT. ALDERAAN - MAIN FORWARD BAY - SERVICE PANEL	105

		Troops carry the two unconscious guards from the pirate
		starship and march past Threepio and little Artoo, who
		are hidden near a tiny service panel.  Artoo removes
		the panel and sticks his claw arm into the socket.  The
		little robot's circuits immediately light up and one of
		his antenna begins to spin wildly.  Smoke begins to pour
		from him before Threepio can pull him loose.  Artoo lets
		out with a few wilted beeps as he cools off.

						THREEPIO
			Well, next time pay more attention.
			You could have been fried... Are
			there any other sockets around here?...
			You must get back into the system
			right away... or Master Luke will be
			caught for sure.

		Artoo whistles a mournful reply and trudges off behind
		some canisters to look for another socket.

106	INT. ALDERAAN - HALLWAY LEADING TO CRYSTAL CHAMBER	106

		A half dozen troops are milling around outside the
		crystal chamber.  An Imperial COMMANDER approaches, and
		they all snap to attention.

						COMMANDER
			What are you waiting for?  Open it up!

		No one moves.  Finally a SERGEANT speaks up.

						SERGEANT
			We were told to wait for the Sith
			Lords to arrive.

						COMMANDER
			They're all up on the prison level.
			The alarms short circuited again.  A
			relay feedback probably tripped it.
			I think we can handle it.  Unlock the
			door.

		The troops lower their weapons as the heavy door is un-
		locked.  The door swings open to reveal the withered old
		Jedi, standing with his laser-sword drawn.  For a brief
		moment the Commander and his men are stunned.

						COMMANDER
			Shoot him down!

		Before the troops can fire their weapons Old Ben has
		moved through them swinging his deadly blade, cutting
		the troops to ribbons.  The old man flees down the hall-
		way with what's left of the troops vainly attempting
		to blast him.

107-108   INT. ALDERAAN - HALLWAY						107-108

		Luke, Han, Chewbacca and Princess Leia run down an empty
		hallway and stop before a bay window overlooking the
		pirate starship.  Luke takes out his pocket com-link.

						LUKE
			See Threepio... do you copy?

						THREEPIO
			I read you sir.

						LUKE
			You're back.  What happened?  Never
			mind.  What's going on?

						THREEPIO
			I'm afraid we're not plugged in at
			the moment, sir.  We've had some
			problems.

						LUKE
			Are you safe?

						THREEPIO
			For the moment.  We're in the main
			hangar.  Artoo is trying to plug into
			the system now.

						LUKE
			Good.  We're right above you.  Stand
			by.

		Han is watching the dozen or so troops moving in and out
		of the starship.

						HAN
			It's going to take a little doing to
			get back to the ship.  It looks like
			I'm going to get a fight after all.

		The two boys rush down the hallway, followed by the lum-
		bering Chewbacca and Princess Leia.  They round a corner
		and run smack dab into twenty Imperial stormtroopers
		heading towards them.  Both groups are taken by surprise
		and stop in their tracks.  Before even thinking, Han
		draws his laser-pistol and charges the troops, yelling
		at the top of his lungs.  The troops are startled by
		this assault and start to back off.  Han manages to cut
		several down before the rest flee in panic.  Pleased
		with his prowess, Han starts after them, yelling back to
		Luke as he goes.

						HAN
			Get to the ship!

						LUKE
			Come back here... Where are you
			going?

		Han has already rounded a corner and does not hear.  Chew-
		bacca, quite upset at his master's disappearance, lets out
		a mighty howl and chases after him.

						LUKE
			Holy Maker!

		Luke is furious but doesn't have time to think about it,
		for muted alarms begin to go off down on the hangar deck.
		Luke and the princess start off toward the starship 
		hangar.

109	INT. ALDERAAN - SUB-HALLWAY						109

		Han chases the ten stormtroopers down a long sub-hallway.
		He is yelling and brandishing his laser-pistol.  The
		troops reach a deadend and are forced to turn and fight.
		Han stops a few feet from them and assumes a defensive
		position.  He is ready to cut them down.  The troops 
		begin to raise their laser guns.  Soon all ten troopers
		are moving into an attack position in front of the lone
		starpirate.  Han's determined look begins to fade as
		the troops begin to advance.

110	INT. ALDERAAN - SUB-HALLWAY						110

		Chewbacca runs down the sub-hallway in a last-ditch
		attempt to save his bold captain.  Suddenly he hears the
		firing of laser guns and yelling.  Around the corner
		shoots Han Solo, pirate extraordinaire, running for his
		life, followed by a host of furious stormtroopers.
		Chewbacca turns and starts running the other way also.
		They run around several corners and the troops drop
		behind.

111	INT. ALDERAAN - NARROW PASSAGEWAY				111

		Old Ben hides in the shadows of a narrow passageway as
		twenty or thirty stormtroopers rush past him in the
		main hallway.  He checks to make sure they're gone,
		then runs down the hallway in the opposite direction.

112	INT. ALDERAAN - MAIN FORWARD BAY - SERVICE PANEL	112

		Little Artoo carefully plugs his claw arm into a new
		wall socket, and a complex array of electronic sounds
		spew from the tiny robot.

						THREEPIO
			Wait a minute, slow down!... That's
			better.  They're where?  They what?
			They are?  Oh, no!
			We're going to be mashed into conduit
			before this is over...

						LUKE
			See Threepio!  Do you copy?

113	INT. ALDERAAN - HALLWAY - BLAST SHIELD DOOR		113

		Luke and the princess run down a hallway and reach a
		complex blast shield door.  Luke is talking into his
		com-link.

						LUKE
			Are you hooked into the system?...
			Good.  Open the shield door... 11054B...
			hurry...

		Han and Chewbacca come lumbering around the corner and
		rush up to Luke and the princess.

						HAN
			Can you get it open?

		A multi-layered series of doors begin to open behind
		them, just as the squad of stormtroopers that are
		chasing Han and Chewbacca round the corner and start
		firing on the rebels.  Han returns the fire and the
		hallway quickly fills up with smoke and confusion
		as the final hatch swings open.

		They turn and start into the main spaceport causeway.
		A few steps into the causeway the group stops short.
		Two Dark Lords of the Sith, leading about thirty storm-
		troopers, stride toward them.  Luke and Han let loose
		with their blasters, then follow the princess and the
		Wookiee back into the first hallway.  Luke takes out
		his com-link.

						LUKE
			See Threepio... Close the shield door!
			Close the shield door quickly... lock
			it tight!

		The five layers of the door instantly slam shut.  Laser bolts
		continued to ricochet around them.

						HAN
			Now what!?!

		Luke shrugs his shoulders.  The stormtroopers continue
		their assault, filling the hallway with smoke and debris.

						LEIA
			This way, hurry!

		She rushes over to a large slit in the wall somewhat
		like a storm drain.  She jumps through the narrow open-
		ing as Han and Chewbacca look on in amazement.  Chew-
		bacca says something.

						HAN
			Go on!  You big furry oaf.

		He shoves the Wookiee into the tiny opening and the
		Wookiee disappears into the darkness followed quickly
		by Han.  Luke fires off a couple of quick blasts,
		creating a smoky cover, then slides into the garbage
		chute and is gone.  When the smoke clears, the troops
		advance.

						SERGEANT
			Get this shield door open!

114	INT. ALDERAAN - SPACEPORT - GARBAGE ROOM			114

		Luke tumbles into a large room filled with garbage and
		muck.  Han and Chewbacca are already stumbling around
		looking for an exit.  He finds a small hatchway and
		struggles to get it open.  It won't budge.

						HAN
					(sarcastic)
			The garbage chute wasn't a bad idea,
			your highness, but unfortunately these
			trash rooms are vacuum sealed.

		He draws his laser-pistol and fires at the hatch.  The
		laser bolt ricochets wildly around the small metal
		room.  Everyone dives for cover in the garbage as the
		bolt explodes almost on top of them.  Leia climbs out
		of the garbage with a rather grim look on her face.

						LEIA 
			Put that thing away or you're going
			to get us all killed.

						HAN
					(sarcastic)
			Yes, your highness.
			I'll let you open it then.  It won't
			be too long before they figure out
			what happened to us.  This has
			turned into a brilliant escape!

						LEIA
			It could be worse...

		Luke and the princess go over to help Chewbacca, who is
		straining to open the emergency latch.  Han moves about
		in the muck.  Suddenly the walls of the garbage recep-
		tacle shudder and move in a couple of inches.  Then
		everything is deathly quiet.

						HAN
			I've got a very bad feeling about 
			all this.

		Before anyone can say anything the walls begin to rumble
		and edge toward the rebels.

						LEIA
			Don't just stand there.  Try to brace
			it with something.

		They place poles and long metal beams between the closing
		walls, but they are simply snapped and bent as the giant 
		trash masher rumbles on.  The situation doesn't look
		good.

						HAN
			This isn't working, your highness.

		The room gets smaller and smaller until it is only three
		feet wide.  Garbage is snapping and popping as it is
		crushed by the relentless walls.  Luke's com-link begins 
		to buzz, and he pulls it off his belt.

						LUKE
			Holy Maker, Threepio.  I forgot...

						THREEPIO
			Are you there, sir?  We're going...

						LUKE
			Threepio!  Shut down all garbage
			mashers on your level... Do you copy??
			Threepio, shut down all garbage...

		The rumbling walls continue.  It looks hopeless, and
		then they stop.  Everyone breathes a sigh of relief.
		Luke goes over to the pressure hatch and scrapes some
		muck off a number.

						LUKE
			Open the pressure maintenance hatch
			on unit 366117891...

115	INT. ALDERAAN - HALLWAY - BLAST SHIELD DOOR		115

		The huge blast shield door slides open and the storm-
		troopers on either side almost shoot each other, but
		quickly realize they have been tricked.  The Sith Lords
		point to the garbage chute.

116	INT. ALDERAAN - HALLWAY LEADING TO MAIN FORWARD BAY	116

		Old Ben hurries along one of the tunnels leading to the
		starship hangar.  Just before he is about to reach the
		hangar, Darth Vader steps into view at the end of the
		tunnel not more than ten feet away.

						VADER
			I've been waiting... At least we meet
			again... It could only have been you...

						BEN
			The Force of the Bogan has grown
			strong with you.  I expected your
			master...

						VADER
			You were once my master, but I am the
			master now... the Crystal will be of
			little use to you...

		The fearsome dark knight ignites his laser-sword and takes
		a defensive stance.  The two galactic warriors stand per-
		fectly still for a few moments, sizing each other up and
		waiting for the right moment.  Old Ben seems to be under
		increasing pressure and strain, as if an invisible weight
		were being placed upon him.  He shakes his head and,
		blinking, tries to clear his eyes.

						VADER
			Your powers are weak... Old man, you
			should never have come back.

		Ben makes a sudden lunge at the huge warrior but is
		checked by a lightning movement of the Sith.  A master-
		ful slash-stroke by Vader is blocked by the old Jedi.
		Another of the Jedi's blows is blocked, then countered.
		Ben moves around the Dark Lord and starts backing into
		the massive starship hangar.  The two powerful warriors
		stand motionless for a few moments with laser-swords
		locked in mid-air, creating a low buzzing sound.

117	INT. ALDERAAN - MAIN FORWARD BAY - STARSHIP		117

		Threepio looks up and sees Ben emerging from the hallway.

						THREEPIO
			There's the general!  Where are the
			others?... Oh, no!

		Threepio ducks out of sight as the seven stormtroopers
		who were guarding the starship rush past them heading
		toward Ben and the Sith knight.  When the robot ven-
		tures another peek, he spots Han, Luke, Chewbacca and
		the princess running out of a tunnel on the other side
		of the starship and heading toward them.  He pulls on
		Artoo.

						THREEPIO
			Unplug yourself.  We're going!

		Ben sees the troops charging toward him and realizes
		that he is trapped.  Vader takes advantage of Ben's
		momentary distraction and brings his mighty laser-sword
		down on the old man.  But Ben manages to deflect the
		blow, swiftly turning around, cutting a safety lock on
		the blast door.  Vader is standing in the access tunnel,
		while Ben is in the huge hangar, and the heavy blast
		door slams down between them, trapping Vader in the
		tunnel.

		Ben instantly turns toward the troops.  They stop in
		their tracks and start to raise their weapons.  Before
		they can fire a shot, a laser bolt explodes in the
		middle of them, creating havoc.  The troops turn around
		to see Luke and Han firing on them from the ramp of the
		starship.  Threepio and Artoo run up the ramp and dis-
		appear inside the ship.  Chewbacca appears at the door
		of the pirate ship and throws a dead stormtrooper onto
		the hangar floor.  Luke turns to Han.

						LUKE
			Get the ship started!

		As Han starts up the ramp, Leia grabs the laser-pistol
		out of his hand.  Han starts to grab it back, then
		thinks better of it and rushes into the starship.  Ben
		charges into the troops, cutting them down as he goes.
		Luke is forced to stop firing and runs to the old man's
		aid with his laser-sword drawn.  Several of the troops
		flee in panic, but the two that remain fire their laser-
		pistols point blank at the old man.  Ben deflects the
		bolt, but it explodes near him and he slumps to the
		floor in a heap.  Luke cuts down the remaining troops
		and rushes to the old Jedi's side.

		Ben is still alive, but badly hurt.  A fresh squad of
		stormtroopers appear at a second tunnel, and Leia fires
		off a blast that makes them duck for cover.

						LEIA
			Luke, quickly!  There are more coming!

		Luke struggles to drag the old man toward the ship under
		the constant fire of the Imperial troops.  Luke fires
		back whenever possible and manages to keep the troops at
		bay.  The princess takes careful aim and hits the safety
		lock on the blast door, causing it to slam shut, leaving
		only three troops left in the hangar.  The princess runs
		down the ramp and helps Luke drag the old man aboard.
		Luke puts away his laser-pistol and takes out his com-link.

						LUKE
			Han, close the main hatch and get
			this thing moving!

118	INT. PIRATE STARSHIP - COCKPIT					118

		Han pulls back on the controls and the ship begins to
		move.  The dull thud of laser bolts can be heard bounc-
		ing of the outside of the ship.  The princess enters
		the cockpit with a worried look on her face.

						HAN
			Don't worry.  They aren't going to
			hurt us with those peashooters...
			This ship is fully shielded.

119	INT. ALDERAAN - MAIN FORWARD BAY - STARSHIP		119

		The pirate starship lifts away from the starship bay
		and quickly disappears into the cloud sea of Alderaan.
		The three troops continue to fire at the retreating
		ship.

		The blast doors quickly slide open revealing Darth
		Vader, an Imperial commander and many troops.  The Dark
		Lord casually enters the hangar bay and speaks to the
		commander.

						VADER
			Very good.  It worked.  Slow them
			down, but don't stop them.  Alert
			all the tracking stations.  We should
			soon know the location of at least
			one of their hidden bases.  Alert the
			Death Star.

120	INT. PIRATE STARSHIP - COCKPIT					120

		Chewbacca enters the crowded cockpit and jabbers away
		to Han.  The young starcaptain jumps up while speaking
		into the com-link.

						HAN
			Luke, you'd better get to on of the
			gun ports.  We've got four tie ships
			coming in on grid five.

		Chewbacca squeezes into the pilot's chair next to the
		princess.  Han notices the skeptical look on Leia's
		face.

						HAN
			With your permission I will go and
			assist young Luke.  Don't worry.
			Chewbacca's a better pilot than I am.

121	INT. PIRATE STARSHIP - GUN PORTS - AFT SECTION -	121
		TRAVELING

		Luke is firing one of the two main laser cannons
		mounted in large rotating bubble turrets.  He adjusts
		his headphones and searches his electronic tracking
		screen for the Imperial fighters.

						LEIA (V.O.)
					(over headphones)
			Here come six more... grid two!

						HAN
			Was this trip really necessary?

		Han jumps into the turret opposite Luke and begins to
		strap himself in.  The pirate starship shudders as the
		Imperial fighters open fire.  Luke's turret swings
		around as he continues to return the fire.  Moments 
		later Han lowers his glare reflector and with a burst 
		of smoke and electrical charge opens up on the enemy
		craft.  One of the Imperial fighters is hit by a con-
		centrated barrage and begins spinning out of control,
		until it finally explodes.  Han gives Luke a victory
		wave, which Luke gleefully returns.

122	EXT. SPACE AROUND ARLDEAAN						122

		Imperial fighters buzz about everywhere.  The constant
		flashing of deflected laser bolts reflect in the inter-
		ior of the turret bubble.

123	INT. PIRATE STARSHIP - SLEEP AREA				123

		The robots secure the wounded Ben Kenobi in a bunk.  A
		huge explosion throws Artoo and Threepio crashing
		against the passageway wall.

						THREEPIO
			Here we go again.  How did we manage
			to get into this mess again?

		Over the com-link the princess gives instructions as to
		the enemy formations.  Several more Imperial ships ex-
		plode and disappear from view.  The pirate starship
		undergoes a great deal of punishment as the battle rages.

124	INT. PIRATE STARSHIP - COCKPIT - TRAVELING			124

		The cockpit is alive with warning lights and buzzers,
		but Chewbacca manages to keep things under control.

						LEIA
			There are only three or four left.

						HAN
					(over intercom)
			Chewbacca, it's time we showed them
			this isn't the regulation F8-88
			Cargo Trawler.

		Chewbacca pulls back on several of the levers before
		him and the ship surges away from the tiny fighters.
		The pirate starship races through the galaxy at an
		incredible speed.

125	INT. PIRATE STARSHIP - GUN PORTS - AFT SECTION -	125
		TRAVELING

		Luke and Han continue to fire at the Imperial fighters.

						HAN
			At this speed they aren't very
			maneuverable...

		One explodes, then another.

						LEIA
					(over intercom)
			They're dropping away... We made it.

		Luke and Han congratulate each other on their victory.

126-127   INT. PIRATE STARSHIP - HALLWAY - SLEEP AREA		126-127

		Leia follows little Artoo into the sleep area where
		Threepio and Luke are trying to make Old Ben comfortable.
		Han finishes putting away some medical supplies as the
		princess enters.

						LEIA
			All the data banks in Artoo are still
			secure.

						HAN
			Then I think we're due the reward
			you offered... and it had better be
			substantial after what we've been 
			through.

						LEIA
			When Artoo has been safely delivered
			to my forces, you get your reward.
			You have my guarantee.

						HAN
			What's that little 'droid' carrying
			that's so blasted important?

						LEIA
			The plans and specifications to a
			battle station with enough fire
			power to destroy an entire system...
			Our only hope in destroying it is
			to find its weakness, which we will
			determine from the data I stored in
			Artoo.

						LEIA (CONT'D)
			We captured the plans in a raid on
			the Imperial shipyards, but we fell
			under attack before I could get the
			data to safety, so I hid it in this
			Artoo unit and sent him off.

						HAN
			Where are you taking us now anyway?

						LEIA
			The fourth moon of Yavin.  I've given
			the coordinates to Chewbacca.

						HAN
			I'd better go see how he's doing.

		Han exits as Old Ben painfully lifts himself on one
		elbow.

						BEN
			They let us go... They're tracking
			us.  They want to find your hidden
			bases.  They'll destroy the system.

						LEIA
			I know they'll follow... and they'll
			bring the Death Star, but our only
			hope is to destroy it before it
			destroys us.  Hiding is useless now.
			With the Death Star they will continue
			to destroy systems until they have
			found us.  We have no alternative
			but to process the information and
			use it while there is still time.

		Threepio helps the old man lie back.

						LUKE
			Are there medical facilities on Yavin?

						LEIA
			He'll be well cared for.

128	EXT. SPACE AROUND FOURTH MOON OF YAVIN			128

		The battered pirate starship drifts into orbit around
		the emerald green fourth moon of Yavin.

129	INT. PIRATE STARSHIP - COCKPIT - TRAVELING			129

		Han and Chewbacca are at the controls as Luke hurries
		into the cockpit.

						HAN
			I don't pick up any life form
			concentration down there.  She'd
			better be right.

						LUKE
			They must be shielded somehow.  I'm
			sure the base is there.

						HAN
			Well, if it's not, we'll be facing
			that Death Star all by our lonesome.

130	EXT. SPACE AROUND FOURTH MOON OF YAVIN			130

		Two small lifepods jettison away from the starship and
		slowly drift toward the awesome deep green surface of
		the moon.  Retro-rockets automatically kick in and
		slow the pods.  The two tiny craft break through the
		light cloud cover and disappear in the dense, steaming
		jungles of Yavin's fourth moon.

131	EXT. FOURTH MOON OF YAVIN - VINE JUNGLE			131

		One of the lifepods has come to rest in the middle of
		a small clearing.  Han, Luke and Threepio emerge from
		the capsule into a forest of gargantuan trees shrouded
		in an eerie mist.  The air is heavy with the fantastic
		cries of unimaginable creatures.

						LUKE
			I don't see how we got through those
			trees in one piece.

		A loud crashing sound is heard coming through the
		jungle.  Han instantly draws his laser-pistol and
		then relaxes when he sees that it is Chewbacca leading
		Leia and little Artoo into the clearing.

						HAN
			I don't see how we're going to find
			anything out here.  This terrain is
			hopeless.

						LEIA
			Did it occur to you they might find us?

		The princess has a knowing smile on her face as Han
		looks around in the nearby jungle and realizes they are
		surrounded by twenty rebel Aquillian rangers.  The
		rebel soldiers break out of the dark foliage and approach
		the group.  The princess meets them a short way from the
		group and gives out a series of animated orders.  The
		soldiers begin to rush about.  Four of them attach a
		lifting disk on Artoo and easily carry him off.  Two
		other rangers help Luke lift Old Ben out of the landing
		pod and onto a stretcher.  The princess rejoins the
		group.

						LEIA
			We must hurry to the base.  We have
			little time before the Death Star
			arrives.

						HAN
			I'd like to get paid before that
			eventually.  I don't plan to stick
			around for the fireworks.

		Luke is surprised at Han's desire to leave and is clearly
		disappointed.

132	EXT. FOURTH MOON OF YAVIN - MASASSI OUTPOST		132

		An ancient temple rots in the dense jungle.

133	INT. MASASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM					133

		In the bowels of the temple a massive and sophisticated
		war room has been constructed.  The princess stands
		before a large electronic wall display surrounded by a
		half dozen field commanders.  Luke, Han, Chewbacca and
		Threepio are milling around just outside the war room.
		An OFFICER enters and hooks up a headphone to the dis-
		play board.  Artoo is standing near the princess with
		his arm plugged into a computer panel.

						OFFICER
			The analysis is coming through now.

		Everyone turns to the big board where various schematics
		of a large round space station are displayed.

						OFFICER
			The cross analysis confirms a weak
			point here, near the north axis...

		The display flashes a close angle of the north pole of
		the complex globe.

						OFFICER
			In an area somewhere below the
			generating towers there is a small
			thermal exhaust port.  It is an
			unshielded shaft that runs directly
			into the reactor system.

		A large, sallow-eyed general named AAY ZAVOS fiddles
		nervously with a small hand computer.

						ZAVOS
			The greatest concentration of fire
			power is at the poles... That exhaust
			port looks too small to hit from the
			air... We'll have to land an assault
			force and use delayed link-weapons.

		The GRAND MOUFF TARKIN, the thin commander of the out-
		land Kesselian Dagoons, stands.

						TARKIN
			An assault force is too big.  Their
			lateral defenses are too strong for
			that type of landing.  With all due
			respect, I suggest an attack with
			our smallest, most maneuverable
			ships.  If we can get close enough,
			I think we can target it.

						LEIA
			Correlate the plan into the master
			logic system.  If there is any kind
			of probability ratio at all, we'll
			go ahead with it.  Send out the alert
			... We haven't much time.

		Most of the commanders hurry out of the room.  Two of
		the generals stay with the princess and go over the
		Death Star readout.  Han and Luke watch as the com-
		manders rush out of the war room.  Han is getting im-
		patient and before Luke can stop him, he has pushed
		past the guards and approached the princess.

						HAN
			What about us?  Are we to wait
			forever?  Is our reward to be blown
			to bits on this forsaken system,
			while your fleet mounts some suicidal
			attack on that Death Star?
			Part of my reward is that I be
			around to spend it.

						LEIA
			I have little time for your
			mercenary concerns, but I am
			grateful for the service you have
			given to our cause.  What is your
			price?

		A grin slides across Han's face.

						HAN
			Ten million.

		The two rebel generals look at one another almost not
		believing their ears.  Luke starts to say something,
		but the princess turns to an officer.

						LEIA
			See that he gets it and quickly.

		The princess then turns to Luke.  She is very cold and
		businesslike.

						LEIA
			And you?

						LUKE
			I... I don't know.  I guess I never
			thought about it... I just want to
			help.  I want to be in on the attack.
			I want my own ship.

						LEIA
			If you're as good a pilot as you are
			a swordsman... We're the ones who
			have been rewarded.

134	INT. MASASSI OUTPOST - MEDICAL CHAMBER			134

		Old Ben rests in the cool, dim quiet of an electronic
		medical chamber.  Luke and Han are by his side.

						HAN
			Goodbye, Ben, goodbye, Luke.  This
			is a charter I won't soon forget.
			And I thought it would be a snap.

		He shakes his head.  Luke extends his hand.

						LUKE
			You're a good pilot... I've learned
			a lot from you... I wish you...

						HAN
			I know, but the chances for survival
			here just aren't great enough in my
			book.  I've got what I came for.
			Now I've got to get back to my ship.

		They shake hands.  Han starts to leave, then turns and
		winks.

						HAN
			May the Force be with you.

		Chewbacca is waiting for him outside the room, and they
		hurry off down the hallway.  Luke turns back to Ben.

						BEN
			I want you to take this.

		He pulls the Kiber Crystal out of his tunic and it radi-
		ates a warm glow through out the small room.  Luke takes
		it.

						LUKE
			The Kiber Crystal.

						BEN
			Keep it with you always.  You'll have
			more need of it than I.  It will
			bring the Force to you.  You've
			already learned to feel it... Now you
			must learn to use it.

		Luke lowers his head in a kind of meditation.

						BEN
			You'd better hurry if you're going
			to get to that briefing.

		Luke stands up as Threepio and Artoo enter.

						LUKE
			You'd better be up and around by
			the time I get back.  Threepio, take
			good care of him.

		Luke pats the lanky robot on the back.

						LUKE
			You've done well, Threepio.  You
			have both served us well beyond your
			programming.  When I return, I'll
			have both you and Artoo retired, if
			you like.

		Artoo lets out with a couple of soft beeps.

						THREEPIO
			Thank you, sir.  Your kindness is
			greatly appreciated, but if it's
			at all possible, Artoo and I would
			like to remain in your service.

						LUKE
			I'd consider it an honor.

		He turns and starts out the door.

						LUKE
			Come on, Artoo.  We've got some work
			to do.

		The stubby little droid waddles out of the room after
		his master.

135	INT. MASASSI OUTPOST - BRIEFING ROOM				135

		The Grand Mouff Tarkin stands before a large projection
		of the north pole of the Death Star.  Four squad com-
		manders (BLUE LEADER, RED LEADER, etc.) sit to one side 
		of the giant readout.  The low ceilinged room is filled
		with starpilots, navigators, and a sprinkling of Artoo-
		type robots.  Everyone is listening intently to what
		Tarkin is saying.

						TARKIN
			... You'll have to come straight in,
			then at the last possible moment
			level off and skim the surface to
			this point.  The target is a four by
			four thermal exhaust port that runs
			directly into the reactor system.
			A direct hit straight into the shaft
			should set up a chain reaction that
			will destroy the station... the post
			is ray-shielded, so you'll have to
			use your torpedoes.

		Luke is sitting next to CHEWIE ANTILLES, a hot-shot
		pilot about sixteen years old.  Artoo is sitting next
		to a little R-2 robot, who lets out a long whistle of
		hopelessness and skepticism.

						CHEWIE (BLUE TWO)
			A four by four target at maximum
			speed with a torpedo yet!  That's
			going to be a neat trick.

						LUKE
			It's not so bad.  We used to bulls-
			eye womprats in my T-16 back home.

						CHEWIE (BLUE TWO)
			This will take a little more than
			a barnyard marksmanship, believe me.

		Red Leader, a roguish looking man in his early thirties,
		stands and addresses the pilots.

						RED LEADER
			Take a special note of these
			emplacements.  There is a heavy
			concentration of fire power on the
			lateral axis... also their generating
			towers will probably create a strong
			magnetic field.  It is calculated
			that maneuverability in this sector
			will be less than point three.

						TARKIN
			We must have a direct hit.  Yellow
			squadron will cover for red on the
			first run.  Then green will cover
			for blue on the second.  Any questions?

		A muted buzz moves throughout the room, but there are
		no questions.

						TARKIN
			Then man your ships and may the Force 
			be with you.

136	INT. MASASSI OUTPOST - MAIN HANGAR DECK			136

		Luke and little Artoo enter a huge spaceship hangar
		carved out of the interior of the crumbling temple and
		hurry along a long line of gleaming spacefighters.

		Flight crews rush here and there loading last minute
		armament and unlocking power couplings.  Luke is
		stopped by Blue Leader, a rugged, handsome man in his
		forties.  He has the confident smile of a born leader.

						BLUE LEADER
			You're Starkiller?

						LUKE
			Yes, sir.

						BLUE LEADER
			Have you been checked out?

						LUKE
			Yes, sir.  I was considered one of
			the best bush pilots on Sullust.
			I've also had six hours on the T-2.

		Blue Leader has a skeptical look on his face.

						BLUE LEADER
			Six hours, huh?  Well, that's your
			ship there.  You're blue five.  You
			stay glued to me.  I don't want any
			independent operations out there.
			Personally I think it's foolish for
			them to be sending fresh kids out
			on a job like this.  This is no joy
			ride we're going on.

						LUKE
			Yes, sir.

		A warning buzzer sounds and Blue Leader smiles.

						BLUE LEADER
			May the Force be with you.

		Luke makes a short bow from the waist as Blue Leader
		hurries to his ship.  Luke's ground crew has hoisted
		little Artoo into a socket on the back of the one-man
		starship fighter.  Luke climbs aboard the sleek, deadly
		spacecraft.  Blue Leader gives his ground crew the sig-
		nal that he is starting his ion engines.  Luke's CREW CHIEF
		pats him on the helmet and has to yell to be heard over
		the ion engines.

						CHIEF
			That R-2 unit of yours seems a little
			beat-up.  Do you want a new one?

		Luke shakes his head no.

						CHIEF
			Knock them all the way back to
			Alderaan.

		The canopy is closed and the powerful starship moves
		into a deep runway shaft that leads to the outside.  Luke
		checks out the computer readouts as his crew locks down
		the armament.

						LUKE
			Artoo, are you secure?

		The little droid, who is now part of the exterior shell
		of the starship, beeps that he is fine, which reads out
		over the computer monitor.  One of the crewman climbs
		up to the cockpit.

						CREWMAN
			I've removed the lateral casings,
			which should make you about a
			thousand pounds lighter.

		He hangs a small good luck charm inside the cockpit as
		the canopy starts to slide closed.  Luke signals to the
		crewmen that everything is okay.  Other crewmen say
		goodbye to their pilots, some serious, some kidding --
		all with a great deal of hidden emotion.

137	EXT. FOURTH MOON OF YAVIN - MASASSI OUTPOST - JUNGLE	137

		All that can be seen of the fortress is a lone guard
		standing on a small pedestal jutting out above the
		dense jungle.  The muted, gruesome crying sounds that
		naturally permeate this eerie purgatory are overwhelmed
		by the thundering din of ion rockets as four silver
		starships catapult from the foliage in a tight forma-
		tion and disappear into the morning cloud cover.

138	INT. MASASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM					138

		The princess sits quietly before the giant display show-
		ing the planet of Yavin and her four moons.  The red dot
		that represents the Death Star moves ever closer to the
		system.  A series of green dots appear around the fourth 
		moon.  The Grand Mouff Tarkin stands behind the princess
		with several other field commanders.

						TARKIN
			They're all away.  For the first
			time since the take-over, I feel
			real hope.

		Everyone turns as Threepio enters with Old Ben who is 
		walking with a chrome cane.  The old man smiles at the
		young princess.

						LEIA
			Switch them to the main com-link
			system.  Let everyone hear it.

		The voices of the starpilots are broadcast into the
		room.

						BLUE LEADER (V.O.)
			Masassi Base, we have visual contact.

139	EXT. SPACE AROUND FOURTH MOON OF YAVIN			139

		A small bright speck orbiting the huge red planet of
		Yavin sparkles in the light of the distant sun.  Eight
		rebel starships settle ominously into the foreground,
		moving swiftly toward the orbiting speck.  As the 
		starships move closer, the awesome size of the gargan-
		tuan Imperial space fortress is revealed.

140	INT. BLUE LEADER STARSHIP - COCKPIT - TRAVELING		140

		Blue Leader, in the first ship, signals to the other
		pilots in his wing group.  The many monitors are filled
		with various computer readouts and displays.  Over the
		com-link one of the other starpilots (BLUE SIX) reports
		to Blue Leader.

						BLUE SIX (V.O.)
					(intercom)
			Look at the size of that thing!

						BLUE LEADER
			Cut off, Blue Six.  Stand by.  Blue
			group, move in to cover the south.
			Red group, try for the exhaust port.
			Settle in.  Here we go.

141	INT. LUKE'S STARSHIP - COCKPIT - TRAVELING			141

		Luke adjusts the controls of the tiny starfighter and
		lowers the sunshade on his goggles.

						BLUE LEADER (V.O.)
			Blue Five, does that glare bother
			you?

						LUKE (BLUE FIVE)
			I've got it blocked.  I'm all right.

142	EXT. SPACE AROUND FOURTH MOON OF YAVIN - BATTLE		142

		Fuel pods are jettisoned.  The starship fighters extend
		their dart-like wings and break off into a power dive
		attack on the space fortress.  A barrage of laser fire
		from the huge fortress creates a wall of death through
		which most of the rebel craft miraculously emerge --
		undamaged.  Multiple laser bolts streak from the star-
		ship fighters, creating small explosions on the complex
		surface of the fort.  Luke directs his fire at one of
		the prime power terminals.  It explodes, generating
		weird electronic arcs that leap off the station's surface.

143-163   INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN STATION					143-163

		Walls buckle and cave in, sucking debris and personnel
		into the vacuum of space.  Alarm sirens scream as sol-
		diers scramble to large turbo-powered laser gun emplace-
		ments.  Officers yell orders through the smoke and con-
		fusion.  Man and robots of various shapes and sizes run
		to their battle stations.  Standing in the middle of the
		chaos, a vision of calm and foreboding, is the evil Sith
		knight, Darth Vader.  Several astro-officers run up to
		him, still putting on the helmets and equipment.

						VADER
			Get to your ships.  I'll take the
			lead myself.  We finally have them
			where we want them.

164	INT. MASASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM					164

		The princess and her generals listen silently to the
		action of the starships over the com-link.  The aides
		and troops move about very quietly listening to the
		battle as they work.

						BLUE LEADER (V.O.)
			Blue One to Masassi Base, we're
			nearing the south pole transmitter
			area.  The magnetic concussion is
			getting very rough.
			We're starting our run.  Tighten it
			up.  Blue Two, tighten it up.  Watch
			those towers.

						CHEWIE (BLUE TWO)(V.O.)
			Heavy fire, boss.  Twenty-three
			degrees.

						BLUE LEADER (V.O.)
			I see it.  Pull in.  Pull in.  We're
			picking up some interference.

						BLUE SIX (V.O.)
			Wow, I've never seen such fire power.

						BLUE LEADER (V.O.)
			Pull in, Blue Two.  Pull in.  Chewie,
			do you read me?  Chewie?

						CHEWIE (V.O.)
			I'm all right, boss.  I've got a
			target.  I'm going in to check it out.

						BLUE SIX (V.O.)
			There is too much action, Chewie.  Get
			out!

						BLUE LEADER (V.O.)
			Break off, Chewie.  Acknowledge.
			We've hit to much interference.  Blue
			Six, can you see Blue Two?

						BLUE SIX (V.O)
			I've lost him.  There's a heavy fire
			zone on this side.  My scanner's
			jammed.  Blue Five?

						LUKE (V.O.)
			He's gone.  No, wait.  There he is.
			Fin damage, but he's all right.

		A sigh of relief sweeps across the war room.

						BLUE LEADER (V.O.)
			Watch your back, Luke.  Watch your
			back!  Squad above you, Blue Five!
			Coming in -- about six ships.

165-171   EXT. SPACE AROUND FOURTH MOON OF YAVIN - BATTLE -	165-171
		REBEL FIGHTERS

		Two fin-winged Imperial fighters dive on Luke, but he
		does a quick spiral turn and eludes them.

						RED LEADER
			Blue Leader, this is Red Leader...
			We've marked the target and are
			starting our attack run.

						BLUE LEADER
			I copy, Red Leader.  We'll try to
			keep them busy on this end.  Blue
			Five, stay close now...

		Blue Leader and Luke (Blue Five) and Blue Four dive in
		unison through a forest of radar domes, antenna and gun
		towers.  They are followed by four Imperial tie fighters.
		The two rebel ships make a sharp turn and come around 
		behind the Imperial ships.  Blue Four and Blue Leader
		fire into the tie fighters as the six ships crisscross
		the surface of the fortress.

		Suddenly a dense barrage of laser fire erupts from a
		protruding tower, catching Blue Four broadside.  The
		rebel spacecraft bursts into a million flaming pieces.
		Luke has a sudden realization of the danger he is in,
		but it quickly fades as another Imperial fighter moves
		onto his tail and begins firing.  Luke rolls away from
		the enemy ship.

		Blue Leader reacts to the loss of his wing man with a
		renewed attack on the Imperial ships -- one of which
		falls away and hits a prime power terminal, creating an
		arching spectacle.  A chain reaction is set off, creat-
		ing a series of explosions leaping across the surface of
		the fortress from terminal to terminal.

172-174   INT. Y WING REBEL STARFIGHTER - RED LEADER COCKPIT	172-174

		A blazing and out of control Red Leader dives toward the
		Death Star surface followed by Darth Vader in a small,
		spider-like Imperial fighter.

						RED LEADER
			Blue Leader, this is Red Leader.
			They hit us before we could get down.
			You'll need more air cover.  Sith
			Lords...

175-190   EXT. DEATH STAR - SOUTH POLE					175-190

		Blue Leader see Luke has an Imperial fighter on his
		tail.

						BLUE LEADER
			We're on our way, Red Leader.

		Blue Two (Chewie) miraculously dives his ship through
		a virtual sea of laser fire and blasts the Imperial
		fighters chasing Luke into dust.  Chewie signals to
		Luke, who lets out a whooping cheer as Chewie veers
		into a victory roll.

						BLUE LEADER
			Great moves, Chewie.  Red Leader
			needs some help.  We're going to try
			for the exhaust port.  Coincide, Blue
			Five.

		Luke and Blue Three bob and weave in formation toward a
		group of giant towers at the north pole.

						LUKE (BLUE FIVE)
			I see the target.  It looks good.

						BLUE THREE
			I've got it.  We're hit!  We're hit!

						LUKE (BLUE FIVE)
			Eject... Eject.  Blue Three, do you
			read?

						BLUE THREE
			I'm all right.  I can hold it.  Give
			me a little room, Blue Five.  Watch
			it!  Watch it!

		Blue Three wobbles a little, then drops away sharply,
		plowing into a huge laser gun emplacement, causing a
		hideous series of chain reaction explosions.  The re-
		maining starships of the Blue group fly in a tight
		formation and dive between the tall towers near the
		exhaust port.

						BLUE LEADER
			Masassi Base, we're in position and
			staring for the target.  Chewie,
			hold your fire until we're within
			point zero five four.  Make it count.
			Luke, stay close.

		Several ack-ack lasers begin to open fire on the
		approaching spacecraft.  The rebel ships direct their
		fire at a small, glowing blue hole at the base of one
		of the towers.  One of the Blue Four's engines begins
		to smoke and an R-2 unit pops out of the back and
		attempts to repair it.

						CHEWIE (BLUE TWO)
			I'm on it.

		Blue Two dives directly at the small target, is unable
		to pull out and crashes into the base of one of the
		towers.  Blue Leader dives between the towers, firing
		away, but is unable to hit the small hole.

						BLUE LEADER
			It's very small.  It's going to be
			difficult.  Send in the green group.
			I'll try again.

		Luke chases an Imperial chip that is chasing Blue Leader.

		One of the two large fins on the Imperial fighter explodes
		and it careens wildly, leaving an erratic trail of smoke
		before eventually crashing into a solar panel.

191-195   EXT. LUKE'S STARSHIP - BATTLE					191-195

		Luke swings the small craft around the many outcroppings
		of laser towers and transmitters.

						LUKE (BLUE FIVE)
			I'm right behind you, Blue Leader.

						BLUE LEADER
			What's that?

		Out of the gloom streaks Darth Vader firing on Blue
		Leader.  Luke tries to intercept the Imperial ship, but
		Vader outmaneuvers him.  Blue Leader dives on the ex-
		haust port, followed by Darth Vader, who is followed by
		Luke, desperately trying to catch up.

						BLUE LEADER
			Blue Five, break off your cover
			attack.  It's too late.  Make your
			own run on the exhaust port.  Do 
			you copy, Luke?

						LUKE (BLUE FIVE)
			Yes, sir, but I can get him...

						BLUE LEADER
			Forget it, son.

		One of the five large engines on Blue Leader's fighter
		explodes.  He careens wildly, leaving an erratic trail
		of smoke before eventually crashing into a solar panel.
		Luke can hear the sharp laugh of Vader over the com-link.

196	INT. VADER'S IMPERIAL TIE FIGHTER - COCKPIT - TRAVELING  196

		Darth Vader laughs maniacally as he swings his craft
		around and starts after Luke's ship.

						VADER
			You're next, Blue Five... I have
			this feeling I know you.  The Force
			is strong with you.

197	INT. LUKE'S STARSHIP - COCKPIT - TRAVELING			197

		Luke's hand instinctively goes to the pocket that holds
		the Kiber Crystal.  Its glow lights up the entire cabin.

						LUKE (BLUE FIVE)
			I am Luke Starkiller.  Had we met
			earlier, you would not be here.

198	INT. MASASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM					198

		On the computer display board, several of the markers
		indicating rebel fighters go dark.  The princess gives
		Old Ben a look of amused surprise at Luke's boldness.
		GENERAL DODANA approaches the princess.

						DODANA
			Over sixty percent of our craft have
			been destroyed.  The probability
			projection shows little hope.  The
			Death Star will be in position to
			fire on us shortly.  We will be
			destroyed.  We must escape while
			there is still time.

		The princess gives Dodana a hard look and the cowardly
		general back away.

						LEIA
			There will be no retreat.

199-225   EXT. BATTLE									199-225

		Luke (Blue Five) dives on the Death Star at an incredi-
		ble speed.  He soon realizes Vader is on his tail.  He
		spins his ship to evade the pursuing Dark Lord, but
		Vader is still there.  His ship rock and shudders under
		the nearby impact of Vader exploding laser bolts.  Luke
		straightens his ship out and it skims across the surface
		of the fortress, creating a blur.

						LUKE (BLUE FIVE)
			Approaching target.  I', almost home.

						VADER (V.O.)
			Not yet, my bold friend.

		Vader hits one of Luke's engines and parts scatter in
		all directions.  The ship wobbles, but Luke keeps the
		craft on target and fires his torpedo... It explodes
		harmlessly to one side of the tiny exhaust port.  He
		pulls his ship up to try for another run.

						LUKE (BLUE FIVE)
			Blast it!  Artoo, we tool a little
			back there.  My stability is off
			about twelve degrees.  See if you
			can't jam the connecting relays.
			We have to get stabilized.

		Artoo pops out of his socket and carefully makes his
		way back to the smoldering engine.  Two other rebel
		ships make a dive on the exhaust port.  One is blasted
		away by Vader, the other fires at the exhaust port and
		misses.

						BLUE EIGHT
			There is just too much interference
			with that Sith Lord out there.  It's
			impossible to get an accurate target
			line-up with him there.

						LUKE (BLUE FIVE)
			Hurry with those relays, Artoo.
			We're going to try again.

		Luke's tiny rebel fighter banks and prepares for a second
		attack on the exhaust port.

		Artoo struggles to repair the damage to one of the huge
		engines.  blue Eight moves in next to him.

						BLUE EIGHT
			I'll cover for you, Blue Five.

		The two rebels start their attack dive.  The surface of
		the Death Star races toward them.  Suddenly, streaking
		down from above them, Vader and two other Imperial
		fighters sweep into view with all of their laser cannons
		blazing away.  Laser bolts explode around little Artoo
		as he works frantically to repair the stabilizer.  Laser
		fire hits Blue Eight and he explodes.

						VADER
			You were foolish enough to try again,
			Blue Five.

		The three Imperial fighters dive on the lone rebel star-
		ship.  Luke struggles to keep control of the ship with
		laser bolts streaking past him on all sides.

						LUKE (BLUE FIVE)
			Blast!

						VADER
			The Force is with you, my bold little
			friend, but now I have you...

		Suddenly Vader's wing man explodes into a shower of
		burning fragments.  Vader is surprised and looks around
		for the cause of his wing man's misfortune.

						VADER
			CTR-5, where did that come from?

						CTR-5
			Collision course... watch out!

		Heading right for the two Imperial fighters is Han Solo
		in the battered old pirate starship.  CTR-5 veers radi-
		cally, clipping Vader's solar fin in the maneuver.
		Vader spins out of control.  Han blasts CTR-5 to smoke.

						HAN
			I noticed you were having some
			problems, Blue Five... I thought
			I'd help.

						LUKE (BLUE FIVE)
			Thanks, old buddy.  I'll be with you
			in a second.

		Luke levels his fighter and skims the surface of the
		fortress, through a wall of laser fire.  Artoo beeps a
		message to Luke.

						LUKE (BLUE FIVE)
			That's good, Artoo.  Just keep it
			that way.

		As he passes the exhaust port, Luke fires a torpedo,
		which goes directly down the exhaust shaft.  Luke looks
		down at the glowing Kiber Crystal in his hand.

						LUKE (BLUE FIVE)
			We did it!  I hit it perfectly.
			Let's get out of here.

		Luke veers sharply away from the Death Star as ominous
		rumbles and explosions are heard coming from within the
		huge super fortress.  The rebel ship speeds past the
		large pirate starship and several other surviving
		rebel fighters as they flee from the pending holocaust.
		A sudden great flash replaces the fortress, and a rain-
		storm of rubble pelts the starships.  Several giant ex-
		plosions follow until there is only a smoke cloud where
		the mighty fortress once orbited Yavin.

						HAN
			Not bad, kid.

226-227   INT. VADER IMPERIAL TIE FIGHTER - COCKPIT - TRAVELING    226-227

		Vader's starship with a bent solar fin limps into the
		vast darkness of space attempting to make it back to
		the relative safety of Alderaan.

228	INT. MASASSI OUTPOST - MAIN HANGAR				228

		Luke climbs out of his starship and is cheered by a
		throng of ground crews and pilots.  Little Artoo is
		helped off the back of the starship and he's greeted by
		Threepio.  Luke spots Han and Chewbacca as they enter
		and runs over to them.  he hugs the Corellian pirate and
		the giant Wookiee.  They all laugh and cheer.  The crowd
		parts, revealing Old Ben.  Luke goes to him and bows
		from waist.  The old man embraces him.

229	INT. MASASSI OUTPOST - MAIN THRONE ROOM			229

		Luke, Artoo, Threepio, Han and Chewbacca enter the huge
		ruins of the main temple.

		Hundreds of troops are lined up in neat rows.  Banners
		are flying and at the far end stands a vision in white,
		the beautiful young Princess Leia.  Luke and the others
		solemnly march up the long aisle and kneel before
		Princess Leia.  Artoo and Threepio are rather awestruck
		at the whole event.  Chewbacca is confused.  Old Ben is
		sitting to the right of the Princess, while the Grand
		Mouff Tarkin sits on her left.  Leia is dressed in a
		long, white dress and is staggeringly beautiful.  She
		rises and places a gold medallion around Han's neck,
		then repeats the ceremony with Chewbacca, the robots
		and finally Luke.  They turn and face the assembled
		troops, who all bow before them.

										FADE OUT.

		END CREDITS.

						THE END
