Originally posted by Erik The Red:
Well, here is the text version of Agent Smith's abridges script. 
Since the original version is eight megs long - a mudda****a Word 
file with pics and all - I am posting just the text. But 
remember: IF YOU GO PAST THIS LINE, THE MOVIE WILL BE RUINED... 
or not.
.........

S
P
O
I
L
E
R
S
P
O
O
L
E
R

FADE IN:


EXT. NAZI GERMAN CONCENTRATION CAMP - DAY (1940's)

A little boy named MAX LENSHERR (who will become MAGNETO, leader 
of the The Brotherhood) is being taken off of a train along with 
his family. 

The German soldiers separate him from his parents. Max screams. 
The men are placed with the men, women with women, and the 
children are dragged away kicking and screaming. 

As he is pulled from his parents, little Max gets heavier and 
heavier. Suddenly barbed wire from the fences uncoils and the 
steel tentacles slowly inch toward the soldiers. 

The soldiers freak out. One of them realizes what is happening so 
he hits Max in the head with the butt of his rifle. Max falls to 
the ground unconscious and the barbed-wire coils back into its 
original position. 


EXT. SAMLL VILLAGE IN KENYA - DAY (1978)

A little 12 year-old African girl with white hair named ORORO 
MUNROE (who will become STORM, one of the X-Men) is playing a 
game of tag using sticks with other kids in her tribe in a sandy 
field. 

Ororo is tagged and then shunned by the other children, who begin 
to tease and taunt her. Their cries begin to turn increasingly 
cruel until they begin to hit her with their sticks. 

The little girl's eyes go white and it suddenly begins snowing 
copiously. The tribe's adults are terrified by this spectacle... 
even more so when the snow turns into large hail.  

Ororo falls to her knees and begins to cry. The tears run from 
her solid white eyes. We see that the hail falls around her and 
does not touch her. The image of the circle of hail, which 
pummels the ground while leaving her within a safe 10-foot 
radius, is striking. 


INT. HIGH SCHOOL IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA - NIGHT (1986)

A man named SCOTT SUMMERS (who will become CYCLOPS, one of the X-
Men) is at his high school senior prom.

Scott argues with his girlfriend, who then runs into the women's 
bathroom. He tries to follow but is stopped by a teacher. 

Scott goes into the men's room and sees that everyone is smoking 
pot. 

Scott sits on the toilet and covers his eyes. Tears flow like a 
tap from between his fingers. The guys in the bathroom ask him 
what he has been smoking... 

	            SCOTT 

	My eyes are killing me. 

Another boy offers Scott some Visine... but it is too late. Scott 
raises his head and reveals his eyes, which glow like embers. A 
red beam shoots out from his eyes and blasts through several 
walls, including the school gymnasium. 


EXT. CONGRESSIONAL HEARING - DAY (present day)

A woman named JEAN GREY (member and spokeswoman for the X-Men) is 
speaking at a podium and briefing the audience about the "mutator 
gene" that exists in all humans and has remained dormant until 
recently. She says that mutants are the next evolution of mankind 
and that they should not be feared. 

SENATOR KELLY then stands and announces that mutants are 
dangerous and that they can not be trusted. He riles up the crowd 
with frightening claims of what mutants can do: There is a girl 
in Indiana who can walk through walls - she would be a perfect 
thief. There is a mutant who can disrupt computers, possibly 
threatening Wall Street. The list goes on and on.

Kelly then talks of a secretive school for mutants in 
Westchester, New York. Kelly believes that the school is a cult 
that trains mutants how to use their aberrant powers against 
mankind. 

Kelly then pushes his Mutant Registration Act. The crowd is 
obviously on his side, not even listening to Jean.

Jean then tries to calm Kelly and the crowd, when suddenly a 
bottle of water comes flying toward her head from the press 
gallery. Jean freezes the bottle in mid-air with her telekinesis 
and says... 

                              JEAN

                  Mutants are not the ones mankind should 
                  fear. 

The bottle then falls to the floor. The press and the senators 
erupt at the demonstration of mutant power. 


Professor CHARLES XAVIER (founder and father figure of the X-Men) 
sits in the audience shaking his head in disappointment at Jean. 
She should not have used her powers.

Xavier suddenly senses a "disturbance in the room." He turns and 
sees a man in shadow at the far end of the room in the doorway. 
The man abruptly turns and walks out. 

Xavier, in wheelchair, follows the man out. The man, with his 
back to Xavier, stops in his tracks. 

[Notice how the architecture in the in the background forms a 
series of  "X's".  A bit of symbolism?]

                             XAVIER 

                  Max please, give them a chance. 

Max Lensherr (Magneto), in an expensive suit, turns around and 
expresses that it is too late for compromise. The war has begun 
and Max guarantees that he will win. 

                              XAVIER

                  Consider what we're trying to accomplish 
                  here. 

Max is unconvinced. He then winces in pain and shakes it off. 

                             MAX 

                 Are you trying to sneak around in my head 
                 Charles? What are you trying to find? 

                            XAVIER 

                 Hope. 

Max walks away and leaves Xavier there alone. 

The dynamics between the two characters is awesome. The dialogue 
between Max and Xavier crackles, even though they are briefly 
together onscreen. 


INT. A BASEMENT IN EDMONTON - EVENING

A 17 year-old girl named ROGUE (who will become one of the X-Men) 
is with her boyfriend in the basement of his home. They are 
watching the news conference we were just at. 

The boyfriend leans over to kiss her and their lips suddenly lock 
in a death embrace, as she begins to suck the life from him (on 
accident). The boy suddenly drops in front of Rogue and the boy's 
parents. 

Rejected by her family, Rogue runs away from home. 


EXT. JUST OUTSIDE A LOG CABIN BAR IN ALBERTA, CANADA - LATER THAT 
NIGHT

A pick up truck sits axle-deep in the snow outside the bar. It is 
snowing heavily.

Inside the bar are a few drunk truckers and locals. Rogue enters 
the bar completely covered from head to toe and asks the 
bartender for a Coke and some chips. She has obviously run away 
from home. 

A rugged man named LOGAN (who will become WOLVERINE) sits at a 
bar watching a different newscast of the mutant press conference. 
He tells the bartender to give the poor girl what she wants. She 
then proceeds to sit down in the corner and have her snack.  


As Logan watches the newscast it says that at the upcoming U.N. 
World Summit Conference all the world's leaders will meet in a 
few weeks at Ellis Island in New York to discuss, among other 
things, the mutant phenomenon. 

One of the drunk truckers then goes over to Rogue and begins to 
talk to her. She ignores him and this causes the trucker to get 
pushy, grabbing her hand. There is a sudden flash of light and he 
passes out. 

The trucker's friends realize that she is a mutant and so they 
close in on her ready to get revenge until... the local named 
Logan speaks up. 
They push him out of the way and then find themselves in a heap 
of trouble. Logan, who is wearing a gleaming metal dog tag, 
knocks out one of the truckers and a fight ensues.

He then puts his fist against one of the trucker's legs and we 
hear a sound that is described as "SHOOK" in the script (like the 
sound of sharp claws quickly emerging). The trucker howls in 
pain. Logan retracts the claw and we see three deep holes in the 
trucker's leg. 


CUT TO Logan's truck as Logan and Rogue drive away. The truck 
door reads "Firewood for sale." 

As Rogue and Logan are driving, Rogue tells Logan that he should 
wear a seatbelt. Before he can answer they suddenly hit something 
and Logan goes flying through the windshield. 

He then gets up... unharmed. Rogue is amazed to see the large 
wound on his face heal before her eyes. 

Logan looks at the obstacle in front of the truck: a tree has 
been felled in their path, intentionally, from the looks of the 
cut. 

Logan is inspecting it, when suddenly a big furry hand slashes 
across his face. A furious battle ensues between SABRETOOTH 
(Magneto's lead henchman) and Logan. Rogue, who can not undo her 
seat belt, watches on. 
 
Sabretooth takes Logan and slams him into the side of the 
roadside cliff. Logan's dog tag comes off on Sabretooth's claw. 
Sabretooth then tosses Logan's unconscious body in front of the 
truck... where two odd figures now stand silhouetted. Both wear 
strange, form-fitting uniforms. 

One figure is a black woman with long white hair and the other is 
a man with a strange glowing visor on his face. 

A rising gale wind created by STORM begins to push Sabretooth 
back. 

But the feral mutant charges, only to be met by an optic blast of 
red energy from CYCLOPS. Sabretooth is blown off the hill. 
Cyclops and Storm then turn toward a frightened Rogue. 

INT. ODD LABORATORY - NIGHT  

TOAD (a member of The Brotherhood) is hard at work in the 
laboratory. 

In a nearby office Sabretooth tells Magneto that he lost Logan to 
Cyclops and Storm. He shows Magneto that all he got was Logan's 
dog tag. Magneto fondles the dog tag while his Holocaust serial 
number tattoo is clearly visible on his arm.

Magneto reads the odd word "Wolverine" on the tag. He realizes 
this is a strange dog tag... it won't bend. 

                              MAGNETO

                  It's just enough for my test.


INT. THE X-MANSION - NIGHT

The severely injured Logan and Rogue are rescued and brought back 
to the X-Mansion.

Inside one of the laboratory rooms Logan lies on a bed, still 
unconscious. 

His x-rays show an odd skeleton that almost appears to glow. 
There is a strange, almost machine-like bone structure, 
especially around the forearms and knuckles. 

Jean then enters and prepares to stick an IV in his arm. Logan 
suddenly snaps out of it and begins to choke her. He eventually 
drops her and as she gasps for air on the floor, Logan realizes 
that his dog tag is gone. 

He rushes out of the lab in a hurry. 

As he wonders through the mansion, he finds himself in a locker 
room type area with odd black uniforms along the wall.


He finds his clothes and continues to wonder through the 
underground facility.
Logan then ducks into a hangar with an odd-looking black jet in 
it. 

He finds an elevator and takes it to the ground level where he 
finds himself in a stately corridor of the mansion. He hears a 
voice from a nearby door and peaks in to see Storm teaching a 
class of very unusual teen-agers about the rise of Christianity. 

Hearing footsteps, Logan turns and hides in a nearby office. In 
this office he is surprised to be welcomed by a man who 
introduces himself as the founder of the school... Charles 
Xavier.


Xavier explains to Logan his own mutant gifts and how he 
telepathically "lead" Logan to this office. He also explains the 
conflict that the X-Men have with Magneto. 

Xavier then proceeds to tell Logan about the X-Men and how each 
of them have codenames and what they mean - Cyclops, Storm, etc. 
Logan the rudely asks...

                              LOGAN

                  What's yours --- "Wheels?" 

Logan then wants to get the hell out of there. But Xavier says 
that Logan's cabin in Canada has been destroyed by Sabretooth and 
he no where to go. 

He appeals to Logan to stop hiding because of the terrible things 
that have been done to him.

                              XAVIER

                  If you leave now, then what's to stop them 
                  from killing you?

                              LOGAN

                  Me.

Xavier says he knows that deep down Logan is a good man and 
continues to explain more about the reason for Logan being 
there...

                              XAVIER

                  Nothing right now can change what's 
                  happening. It's how we deal with what's 
                  around us that helps things feel right. 
                  That's why you're here."

Jean then enters the office with Rogue. 

Xavier says that Rogue is looking for a place to belong and that 
this school is just the place she has been looking for. He briefs 
her about the school and explains what the mutant's purpose is...
 
                                                                            
                                                                           
                         XAVIER

                  We're not what you think.   

Logan says that he will give the place 48 hours... after that 
he's gone. Xavier agrees.


INT. A LIMOUSINE IN WASHINGTON D.C - DAY

Senator Kelly is in the limousine complaining to his assistant, 
HENRY GUYRICH, about how the president won't see his position. 

Guyrich then suddenly transforms into the real identity of 
MYSTIQUE. She kicks Kelly in the face, knocking him out.


INT. THE X-MANSION - DAY

Jean shows Logan to his room at the school. It is a basic dorm 
room with a simple bed and a desk. She asks if he needs 
anything... 

                              LOGAN

                  A case of beer and some cigars. 

She lightheartedly tells him no and then proceeds to asks him how 
he got his skeleton and who gave it to him. He says he does not 
remember. 

Jean then suggests that Xavier could help him with that by 
reading his thoughts. He looks at her with interest and 
replies...

                              LOGAN

                  What if they're naughty? 

Jean just smiles and starts out the door. 

She then turns and only then does she realize that Cyclops is 
standing there.

                              JEAN

                  Scott... I ---

Cyclops starts down the hall. Jean follows.

                              CYCLOPS

                  He shouldn't be here.

                              JEAN

                  What are you talking about?

                              CYCLOPS

                  He's dangerous. You heard what happened at 
                  that bar. There's no telling what a guy 
                  like that is capable of. This is a school, 
                  for God's sake.

                              JEAN

                  If Magneto is planning to use this man for 
                  some terrible purpose, it's our
                  responsibility to do something.

Jean stops Cyclops from walking.

                              JEAN (cont.)

                  What's wrong? There's something else
                  bothering you.

Cyclops gets closer to Jean. She affectionately places her hands 
on his chest. 


CUT BACK TO Logan's Room. Logan's sensitive hearing has picked up 
the whole conversation between Cyclops and Jean.

                              CYCLOPS 

                  I have a bad feeling about this.

Logan shrugs.

                              JEAN 

                  That's the difference between you and him.


INT. THE X-MANSION - LATER THAT NIGHT

Jean shows Logan's x-rays to Xavier, Storm, and Cyclops. 

She explains that Logan's skeleton is made of Adamantium, which 
she believes has been grafted onto his bones by someone. 
Adamantium is the strongest substance known to man. 

Xavier says that Logan has no memory of who did this to him and 
that he is pretty sure that it is not Logan the man that Magneto 
actually wants... it is his skeleton.
INT. THE X-MANSION - THE NEXT MORNING

Scott approaches Logan and tries to introduce himself to try to 
get off on the right foot. But Logan is not feeling too friendly. 
Logan tells Scott to stay out of his way until he leaves.


A MONTAGE OF SCENES THEN FOLLOW... 

We witness the daily events at Xavier' School for the Gifted: 
Students study, play sports with their powers, etc. 

[This is probably where a lot of young mutant cameos will take 
place.]


EXT. THE X-MANSION - LATER THAT AFTERNOON

Storm explains the school's mission to Logan. Logan wonders why a 
simple school needs high-tech labs, special battle uniforms, a 
stealth jet, etc. 

Storm says that Xavier inherited a great deal of money as a young 
man and established the school to protect mutants while humans 
adjust to their presence. 

As they walk, they come across Scott and Jean, wearing their 
costumes while practicing their powers. Some of the other 
students, including Rogue, watch on. 

Scott is blowing the caps off Coke bottles on a fence. Jean 
catches them and sets them up again. 

Logan makes another suggestive comment to Jean and this makes 
Scott a bit jealous. Angry, Scott completely obliterates one of 
the bottles. 

We PAN BACK to see that Toad has been watching all along.


EXT. FOREST CLEARING - LATE THAT NIGHT

Senator Kelly awakens to find himself strapped to a metal chair. 
Magneto, wearing his costume and helmet, is there, still 
fingering Logan's dog tag. 

Magneto tells Kelly that Guyrich has been dead for some time and 
has been impersonated by Mystique, who then shows herself. 

Kelly tells Magneto that his actions are only proving Kelly's 
views about mutants correct. Magneto replies... 

                              MAGNETO

                  I hope so.

Magneto then turns on some lights to reveal a large, flamboyant-
looking Machine. 


He then explains his war plan to Kelly while mentally moving 
chess pieces on a chess board. 

                              MAGNETO 

                  Humans invented God to explain away their 
                  fears. Now humans fear us... so we must be 
                  Gods.

Magneto is completely insane. 

He and Kelly continue to spar over the "intentions" of the Mutant 
Registration Act. Magneto says he intends to help humans 
"understand" mutants better. 

He then inserts the dog tag into the Machine and raises his arms, 
using his magnetic powers to activate it. Rings of light form 
around the dog tag, spinning faster and faster. The Machine 
begins to work on its own and Magneto leaves. 

Light begins to "ooze" out of the machine, covering Kelly. 
The light spreads out into the forest and into the night sky, 
shining like a beacon for miles around. We see that we are on an 
island and the light that engulfs the island grows to about five 
miles in diameter and then vanishes. 

We find that the dog tag has been reduced to ash by the machine. 

Kelly appears healthy, pink, and somewhat different. 

                              MAGNETO 

                  Welcome to the future. 


INT. THE X-MANSION - LATER THAT NIGHT

Logan sleeps fitfully in his room at the mansion. 

He then discovers that he is an old lab with 1950s era equipment 
in it. He notices that his body is covered in incision marks that 
match his skeleton. 

Faceless doctors take notes and prepare the dog tag marked 
"Wolverine". The doctors with scalpels prepare to cut as Logan 
screams at the top of his lungs. 

Logan wakes from his nightmare to see a figure standing over him. 
This startles him so he reacts instinctively and aggressively.

Cyclops, Jean, and Storm then rush into the room to find Logan's 
claws deep into Rogue's chest. Logan pulls out the claws and 
Rogue, who is fading, reaches out and touches him. Logan trembles 
and howls in pain as Rogue absorbs his healing power. Her wounds 
then close. 

She then takes on Logan's persona and begins to smash things, 
raking the walls as though she has claws. After a moment she 
finally reverts to her normal self.

She then runs from the room and Storm follows. Jean tends to the 
unconscious Logan while Scott fumes.


INT. MAGNETO'S ISLAND - THE NEXT DAY

Senator Kelly is in a cell on a cliff on Magneto's island. There 
is nothing but rock and bars that surround him as he faces the 
ocean. The entrance at the rear of the cell enters into a dark 
chasm, with a retracted catwalk providing the only access. 

Kelly puts his face against the bars and presses. His head cracks 
like an egg and slips through. He is more in shock than he is in 
pain... especially when his head snaps back into place. He hears 
someone approaching. 

Magneto arrives to find Kelly pushing his broken and rehealing 
body through the bars. Magneto sics Sabretooth on him and 
Sabretooth grabs Kelly's skull and squeezes. The Senator's head 
collapses and he slips through Sabretooth's grasp and falls into 
the ocean. 

Sabretooth looks apologetically at Magneto. 

INT. THE X-MANSION - LATER THAT DAY 

Logan walks through the halls of the school. Everyone is keeping 
their distance from him after hearing about the previous night's 
incident. 

[This could possibly be the rumored scene where KITTY PRYDE walks 
by Logan in the hall and proceeds to walk strait through a door 
to the astonishment of Logan]

He then enters a gym with unusually large weights and finds Jean 
working out. She is wearing a large engagement ring. 

She has some trouble with the weights but refuses Logan's help 
... and his invitation to go get a beer. 

She spots herself, using her powers to lift the weights back on 
to the rack. 


EXT. A PUBLIC BEACH - DAY

At a crowded public beach, a strange object moves through the 
water. As it gets close, it appears to transform from a dolphin-
like creature to a human as it nears the shore. 


Its fins morph into arms and feet as... Senator Kelly searches 
for some clothes to wear. 

The crowd flees in fear and a child asks... 

                              CHILD

                  Mom, is that a mutant? 


INT. THE GYM AT THE X-MANSION - LATER THAT DAY

Jean and Logan continue talking. She explains that she is engaged 
to Scott. She then asks if that's why Logan's interested in her. 
He doesn't reply.

She asks Logan if he would have killed the men in the bar. 

                              LOGAN

                  They shouldn't step up if they're not 
                  prepared to pay the price. 

                              
                              JEAN

                  That's a pretty steep price.

Jean adds that that is the difference between Logan and Scott. 

Cyclops then enters the weight room, still dressed in full 
uniform.  Logan takes him in, obviously amused by the dramatic 
outfit.

                              CYCLOPS
                             (to Jean)

                  Would you excuse us, please? I'd like to
                  talk with Logan for a moment.

                              JEAN
                             (beat)

                  Sure.

She exits.

                              CYCLOPS
                       (walking up to Logan)

                  I just want to make you clear on 
                  something. Personally, I don't care what
                  Magneto wants with you. He can take those 
                  claws of yours and use them for barbecue 
                  skewers. What I do care about is the 
                  safety of this group. So, for the 
                  remainder of your time here, you're going 
                  to keep that killer instinct of yours 
                  locked down so no one else gets hurt.

Logan looks at Cyclops appraisingly.

                              LOGAN
                             (smirks)

                  You know, I've served with men like you
                  before. Methodical. Systematic. ---
                  Naive. You know what happens to those
                  men in a real fight?

                              CYCLOPS

                  You better just ---

                              LOGAN

                  Shut up. Who are you talking to? I got no 
                  interest in you, Xavier,

He points mockingly at the X's on Cyclops' uniform.

                              
                              LOGAN (cont.)

                  or your... X-Men.

Logan takes him in for a moment.

                              LOGAN (cont.)

                  And you know what? I don't think this has 
                  anything to do with my "killer instinct". 
                  I think you just don't like the way I'm 
                  looking at your girl. --- or maybe you 
                  don't like the way she's looking back. And 
                  maybe you think you're man enough to do 
                  something about it.

Cyclops is enraged. A red light begins to glow around the edges 
of his visor and the ruby-quartz lens brightens. We can faintly 
hear the low hum of immense power that is now barely contained.

Before Cyclops can even react, Logan puts his right fist against 
Cyclops' throat. "SHOOK!"... Logan extends one claw up the side 
of Cyclops' neck. He smiles

                              LOGAN (cont.)

                  C'mon sport. You think you can blow the
                  meat off my bones before I gut you? Let's 
                  find out.

The air is now charged with tension. We hear nothing but the 
sound of Logan's enraged breathing. Then... Cyclops turns away.


INT. XAVIER'S OFFICE - MINUTES LATER

WHAM! Logan slams open the door of Xavier's office and storms in.

                              LOGAN

                  I have a question for you, Chuck --- 
                  What's the point? Making yourselves into
                  some sort of "team" of super-powered 
                  freaks. Teaching wayward mutants about
                  classical literature. For what?

                              XAVIER

                  Logan, when I ---

                              LOGAN

                  Yeah, I know, I heard. You were a rich
                  young mutant and the injustices of
                  society and blah, blah, blah.

Xavier tells Logan that Magneto is right... humans will come 
after mutants. 

                              XAVIER

                  But the choice is fight and be destroyed 
                  or fight for understanding. 

Xavier believes the latter response is the more worthy. 

Logan says they differ on that because if the people who put the 
claws in his arms were standing right there, he would kill them 
... again. Logan then says the 48 hours are up. 

Xavier says he knows that Magneto wants the Adamantium in Logan's 
bones... but he doesn't know for what purpose. 

Storm then abruptly enters and says that Rogue has vanished. 


Logan, Xavier, Storm, Cyclops, and Jean then walk down a high-
tech subterranean corridor to a big vault door. Xavier says they 
will use the device within to find Rogue the same way they found 
Logan. The device is... Cerebro.

A retina scan clears Xavier to enter. 

Once in, he puts on the chrome skull-cap.

Xavier says that Magneto helped him build the device back when 
they were allies. 

Xavier then activates the machine. We see the Earth from space, 
approaching quickly. We then hear the voices of everyone on the 
planet, skimming through entire towns and countries until we 
see... Rogue in a train station.
We close in on the back of her head until the screen goes black 
and we hear her voice... 

                              ROGUE

                  I don't belong ... there's no where to go.

Xavier's eyes pop open and he says that Rogue is at the train 
station and doesn't know where she's going.

Logan wants to help her and asks to go along. 


INT. ANOTHER PART OF THE X-MANSION - MINUTES LATER

Scott and Storm get into one of Xavier's Bentleys, but Logan 
chooses a Harley from the garage and roars off ahead of them to 
the train station.


INT. THE SOLARIUM OF THE X-MANSION 

Jean is in the solarium treating a small cut on a student when... 
Senator Kelly suddenly appears. He says he has always known about 
the school.  But he is hurt badly, barely making it. Water is 
oozing off his body. 

Jean takes him to the lab, where she and Xavier examine him. 
Kelly is barely coherent. 

Xavier then enters his mind and we see a quick recap of the 
movie's events as seen from Kelly's point of view. 


EXT. THE TRAIN STATION 

Scott and Storm enter the train station, going past Logan's 
parked cycle. 

Inside, Logan is tracking Rogue and spots her get on a train. He 
hops on a few cars and finds her sitting alone. 

She explains to Logan how her powers first appeared on her first 
date, on her first kiss. How she
nearly killed the boy and how her parents rejected her. 

Logan comforts her just as the train starts to leave. He says 
that they will get off at the next station and give Xavier's 
geeks another chance. 

But the train suddenly stops... Magneto's boots can be seen 
walking down the aisle toward Logan. Logan pops out his claws. 

Magneto reveals under his cloak five glass and metal syringes. He 
then levitates Logan.

Magneto uses his powers to launch the syringes at Logan. They hit 
and the plungers depress. 


Logan staggers, taking swipes and cutting the seats in the train 
before he collapses at Magneto's feet. 


INT. THE X-MANSION 

Jean's tests reveal that Kelly's cells can't handle the change 
his body is going through. His body is liquefying.


INT. THE TRAIN STATION 

At the station, Scott and Storm spot where the crowds are fleeing 
from the car where the fight has occurred. They head for the 
action. 

Sabretooth suddenly reaches out and grabs Storm by the throat. 
Toad then reveals himself, using his sticky tongue to steal 
Cyclops' visor. 

Surprised, Cyclops directs his beam up, away from the crowd 
before he can close his eyes. The blast
hits the ceiling and the entire building shakes. 

INT. THE X-MANSION

Xavier detects Storm's distress telepathically. He and Jean race 
to join the battle.


CUT BACK TO THE TRAIN STATION...

Storm appears done... but the hairs on Sabretooth's back rise and 
he is blasted away from her by a bolt of lightning that she 
creates. 


Storm is knocked out. Sabretooth is only stunned. 

With his eyes closed, a blind Scott stumbles through the crowd 
looking for Storm when a cop suddenly stops him and puts a gun to 
the side of his head.


INT. THE X-MANSION

At the gate to the mansion, Rogue appears. She is admitted and 
finds her way to Cerebro. Rogue's eye morphs into Xavier's eye to 
gain access through the retina scan. 

Once inside, Mystique resumes her normal shape...


... and steals a small computer chip from the device. 


INT. THE TRAIN STATION

Cops are everywhere at the station. E.M.T.'s are examining Storm. 
Scott is handcuffed and refuses to open his eyes or reveal his 
name to the cops who are questioning him. 

The cops are about to get rough with Scott when everyone in the 
station suddenly hears the word "STOP!"... in their minds. 

Xavier and Jean reveal themselves and everyone one but the X-Men 
suddenly drop to the ground and go to sleep. 

Xavier calls to Rogue, who steps from the shadows scared stiff by 
what has happened. 


INT. THE X-MANSION - LATER THAT DAY

Xavier and Jean explain to the others that they know Magneto has 
built a Machine that will turn normal humans into mutants and 
that it uses Adamantium as its core, much like a light bulb uses 
Tungsten as a
filament. Adamantium is the only known substance strong enough to 
contain the power the device emits. 

Jean then insists that what has happened to Senator Kelly proves 
that the machine does not work. She believes that human genes can 
not handle the change. Meanwhile, Kelly is dying. 

They believe Magneto wants to use Logan's skeleton to power a 
larger demonstration of his device. They realize the most likely 
place that Magneto could do this would be at the U.N. summit 
about to convene on Ellis Island. 

Suddenly, Kelly's monitors go berserk and the X-Men watch 
helplessly as Kelly's body liquefies before their eyes. They 
realize they need to find out where Logan is being held. 


Xavier then enters Cerebro again. But suddenly the machine goes 
berserk when he activates it. Xavier's back arches in incredible 
pain and he falls to the floor unconscious. He is taken to the 
lab and they monitor his coma.

Jean then examines Cerebro and realizes the neurofilter that 
allows Xavier to filter out the billions of minds on the planet 
in his search for one mutant, is gone. 

They can't bring Xavier back without Cerebro's help and they need 
to recover the filter for it to work properly. 


Jean then reassures a distraught Cyclops that he is the leader 
for a reason, that he can live up to Xavier's expectations. 


INT.  THE WAR ROOM IN THE X-MANSION - MINUTES LATER

Examining a map of the New York Harbor... 

... they determine that the only place Magneto could use his 
machine to maximum effect without being detected is the Statue of 
Liberty.


Before leaving, Cyclops promises the comatose Xavier that he will 
look after the school and the students no matter what happens to 
Xavier. 

Rogue then tries to talk the X-Men into letting her come along, 
but Storm says that it is too dangerous. Rogue will not take no 
for an answer. 

Scott apologizes to Jean for acting jealous as they suit up and 
join everyone else aboard... the X-Jet. 

The school's basketball court in the yard opens up to reveal the 
jet. They then take off into the night sky.


EXT. ELLIS ISLAND - NIGHT

At Ellis Island, all the political dignitaries are arriving to a 
grand display of pomp. 

Away from the action, two cops patrol the Island. Toad descends 
on them, incapacitating them with a sickening crunch.


Two more cops are on patrol along the sea wall at nearby Liberty 
Island. One of the cops holds a lighter for the other's cigarette 
when all of the sudden the flame goes out of control and engulfs 
them. 

A police boat then approaches the island. A cop in the foreground 
waves at the boat pilot then contorts in pain from Sabretooth 
taking care of him. The boat pilot shapeshifts to reveal 
Mystique.


Magneto is standing on the boat as it docks.  He pulls back a 
tarp to reveal the unconscious Logan and the Machine. Magneto 
prepares to "raise" the machine. 


EXT. THE X-JET

On the X-Jet, Storm provides cover for their approach, creating a 
dense fog in the harbor. 

INT. THE STATUE OF LIBERTY


Logan wakes in a strange, small room. Magneto is there. Logan's 
fists are strapped to his body so that if he extends his claws 
he'll puncture his vital organs. 

Magneto explains he intends to make the mutant cause the world's 
cause in one fell stroke and Logan¹s life is small thing to 
sacrifice toward that goal. 

Magneto prepares to drug Logan again, but Logan suddenly kicks 
the syringe out of his hand. Indifferent, Magneto leaves and 
locks Logan in the room. 

Magneto then stands on the catwalk around the statue's torch, 
savoring the moment. Mystique then reports that the president is 
late. 

Magneto spots the fog and realizes the X-Men are coming. He warns 
his Brotherhood of Mutants. 


EXT. JUST OFF OF LIBERTY ISLAND

The X-Jet lands in the water. The X-Men open the hatch and jump 
down onto Liberty Island. 

Across the water at Ellis Island, the dignitaries are taking 
their seats for the opening of the summit. Storm looks up at the 
torch and sees it has been replaced by the bottom part of 
Magneto's machine. 

Cyclops finds the charred remains of a policeman's hat. 


Inside the X-Jet, the hatch pops open again. A stowaway Rogue 
hops out, ready to join the mission and save her friend, Logan, 
who's kicked away the glass in the torch and can see out. 

[At some point Logan gets his uniform because he is wearing it as 
all of this is going on. At this time I do not know how he 
acquires it.]

Rogue then heads past a 6-foot replica of the statue outside the 
structure. The replica's eyes turn Mystique red.


INT. THE STATUE OF LIBERTY

In a giant museum multi-level room that welcomes visitors to the 
statue, Scott, Jean, and Storm consult a map to figure out the 
best plan of attack and rescue. 

Rogue rushes into the museum when she suddenly hears footsteps 
and turns to find Logan, who we see from behind is really 
Mystique, trying to lure Rogue away. 

In the museum, Toad unexpectedly enters the fray, leaping at 
Storm. Cyclops fires at him but misses. 
Toad attacks Jean, using his tongue-slime on her. It covers her 
mouth and nose and then hardens. She is unable to breathe. Toad 
suddenly disappears. 

Scott rushes to Jean and tells her to lay still. 

He focuses his beam tightly and cracks the adhesive on her face. 
He is then able to pull it off and she can breathe again. 


Meanwhile, Storm is looking for Toad. He quickly pops up again.

Toad then spots Cyclops and Jean back on the lower level.


To Toad's surprise Storm appears again.

 
She cranks up the wind to hurricane force, so Toad adheres 
himself to the deck until the deck finally gives way. 

With the wind blowing harder, he grabs on to the seawall railing 
with his six-foot tongue and flaps in the wind. Storm zaps the 
railing with a lightning bolt and Toad is then blown into the 
harbor, sinking without a trace. 

Scott, Jean, and Storm then find the stairwell to the torch is 
blocked by debris.

Instead, they head for the statue's crown. Once they arrive, they 
discover that the crown is empty, but from there they can see and 
hear Logan trying to escape from the torch. 

Suddenly, the metal bracing in the room comes loose and wraps 
around Cyclops' neck. Storm and Jean are also caught. Scott is 
held facing Jean. 

Magneto floats into the crown [this creates the hole in the roof 
of the crown] and tears off Cyclops' visor, leaving him unable to 
use his power without hurting Jean. Magneto then puts the visor 
on his belt. 

Magneto takes the neurofilter from his belt and tucks it in a 
pocket on Jean's costume, saying they can try and save Xavier 
once this is all over. 

Jean says that the machine does not work because Senetor Kelly is 
dead. Magneto says it does not matter and that he is the one 
holding the fates of the world leaders in his hands, not vice 
versa. 

Sabretooth then radios in and says that the president has finally 
arrived. Magneto raises his arms and begins to power up the 
machine. Logan's skeleton begins to glow through his skin. 

Mystique arrives and walks over to stand next to Magneto. The 
machine is fully charged. 

Jean pleads to Mystique to stop this. 

                              MYSTIQUE

                  Don't listen to her. It's a trap.

                              MAGNETO

                  What is?
 
                              MYSTIQUE

                  This is.

Mystique then kisses Magneto deeply. Mystique is actually... 
Rogue [who has acquired Mystique's shape shifting ability], and 
she is sucking the power out of him. When Rogue does this, the 
immense power she gains from Magneto creates the famous white 
stripe down Rogue's hair. 

Jean then tells Rogue to destroy the machine, but Magneto is 
still conscious and begins to choke Rogue. 
Rogue begins to lose consciousness and makes eye contact with 
Wolverine from the torch. His skin begins to smoke. 

Seeing no other way out, Wolverine extends his claws through his 
chest and roars in pain as he frees himself and pulls the claws 
from his own body.


EXT. ELLIS ISLAND

The security on Ellis Island notices the catastrophy and begins 
to investigate. They get in boats and speed over to Liberty 
Island. 


INT. THE STATUE OF LIBERTY

Enraged, Magneto chokes Rogue even harder. 

Wolverine stands free and leaps down into the crown. He extends 
his claws and heads in to kill Magneto, who doesn't have enough 
power to defend himself. 

Jean pleads with Wolverine not to kill him. So he retracts his 
claws mid-punch and merely knocks out Magneto. 

From the stairwell though, Sabretooth grabs Wolverine and pulls 
him down. A knock-down fight occurs in the narrow confines of the 
stairs. 

Wolverine uses his metal skull, head-butting Sabretooth with a 
sickening crunch. 

But then Sabretooth tosses Wolverine through the whole in the 
roof onto the crown.

Sabretooth then climbs onto the crown, grabs Wolverine's body, 
and tosses him off of the head of the statue.

In mid-air, Wolverine grabs one of the spikes protruding from the 
statue's head... 

...and slingshots himself back onto the spike.

Wolverine extends his claws, inviting Sabretooth to come and get 
him.

Sabretooth accepts the challenge with a roar. 

They continue to fight and Wolverine even punctures Sabretooth 
with his claws at one point. But eventually Sabertooth knocks 
Wolverine unconscience. 

Sabertooth is about to finish off Wolverine when... his hair 
rises, but this time Sabertooth knocks out Storm before she can 
strike again. 

Sabertooth then goes for Jean... but Wolverine is there again, 
standing over Magneto. Wolverine takes Cyclops' visor from 
Magneto's belt. Wolverine tosses it in the air and Jean then uses 
her powers to quickly float it back onto Cyclops' face. 

Wolverine and Sabertooth continue to fight in a logic-defying 
manner. But Sabretooth's death does not come from Wolverine, it 
comes from... Cyclops, who blasts Sabretooth through the forehead 
of the Statue of Liberty.

Sabertooth lands on Magneto's boat, still parked next to the 
island. 

Rogue, who still has Magneto's powers, frees the X-Men and they 
flee the statue. 

Mystique, who is tied up, takes the form of a cop to escape when 
the authorities arrive. They search Magneto's boat, but 
Sabretooth is gone.

[Something to remember... Sabretooth has the super healing factor 
just as Wolverine does.]

Magneto is then captured. The police do not notice the shape of 
the X-Jet flying off in the distance. 

INT. THE X-MANSION

Back at the school, the neurofilter is re-installed and, with 
Cerebro's help, Xavier comes to.


INT. THE X-MANSION - A FEW DAYS LATER

The school's students are watching the vote on the Mutant 
Registration Act in the Senate. The bill fails on a 51-49 vote. 
The deciding vote belonged to Senator Kelly... who now says that 
he fears the forces of fear and prejudice could tear the nation 
apart. 

He then gets into a limousine and he is revealed to be Mystique 
in yet another disguise. 


INT. LOGAN'S ROOM IN THE X-MANSION

Logan opens the blinds in his room at the school to find a box. 
It is a case of O'Douls nonalcoholic beer and a card that reads 
"Welcome home X."

Xavier then appears and tells Logan that they will miss him. But 
as everyone prepares to say goodbye and thank Logan for what he 
did, he changes his mind, drops his duffel bag and asks... 

                                                               
                              LOGAN

                  Is there any real beer in the place? 


INT. A SPECIAL PRISON

In this special prison, where the walls and everything inside of 
them is made of plastic, Xavier is wheeled in a special plastic 
wheelchair into the cell where Magneto is being held. 

Magneto is playing chess. He says that he would not have let 
Charles die and that soon he will find an escape and the war will 
continue. 

Xavier says he and his students will be ready to meet him. Xavier 
then moves a piece on the chess board. 

                              XAVIER.

                  Check. 

Xavier then leaves, escorted out by a guard. Magneto smiles, and 
levitates another piece on the board.

                              MAGNETO

                  And mate. 
.

The end.


_________________________________________________________________


Alright, I hope ya'll liked that. Now remember, there will be 
scenes in the movie there were not mentioned in this summary. 
From the trailer we know that there is: 

- A scene where Magneto has a run in with the cops and lifts two 
police cars with his powers.

- A scene where Jean Grey uses Cerebro.

- A scene where Scott Summers runs through a tunnel looking 
worried in the basement of the X-Mansion.

- From some other storyboards on the Internet, we know that at 
one point in the climax of the movie, Storm lifts Wolverine to 
the torch of the Statue of Liberty using her powers to manipulate 
wind.

- And there is a rumored scene where Wolverine fights Mystique 
[who is in the form of Wolverine].


To be honest with you, I just couldn't figure out where any of 
these scenes fit into the story. If anyone
has any idea, just email me at Theohoff20@aol.com and I'll edit 
the summary. Anyway, I tried my best to just show everyone that 
this movie will indeed blow people away this summer. I can't 
freakin' wait. This is Agent Smith checking out.





