					 BATMAN II

					    by

				    Daniel Waters

									  May 20, 1991

	INT. A STUFFY MANSION--A NIGHT ABOUT THIRTY YEARS AGO

	The viewer floats through an overbearing mansion and
	up its sweeping staircase to where a stern man in
	conservative dress is pacing back and forth, smoking a
	cigarette in a cigarette holder.  He is the FATHER.  The
	throes-of-labor pants and moans of the MOTHER can be
	heard from down the hall.

	Disturbing other-worldly Gaas and Goos chill the air.
	Mother's moans turn to howls.  The Father stops and
	gapes the cigarette holder out of his mouth to see a
	SCREECHING NURSE wail out of the mansion room and
	disappear down the other end of the hallway.

	A TRAUMATIZED DOCTOR next plows out from the room; hold-
	ing his mouth in a frenetic gagging noise.  The Father
	runs into the room.  The viewer remains outside and
	hears the Father's subsequent screams.

	INT. MANSION LIVING ROOM--CHRISTMAS EVE PAST--NIGHT

	A bizarrely corrugated Cage, made up of wavy, barely
	separated black bars sits amid the plush elegant, period
	and Christmased-up surroundings of the mansion.  With
	their backs turned to the sickly squeals emerging from
	the Playpen from Hell, Father and Mother, holding
	martinis, look out a window of gentle snowfall, with
	bloodshot eyes.  A 50's-type radio warbles a Christmas
	classic.

	A strange pair of eyes peer from the cage.  Taking the
	point of view of the eyes from inside the playpen, one
	sees the mansion's Christmas tree from between the dark
	cage slats.  The squealings stop.

	AN ANGELIC CHILD in an undershirt and red boxer shorts
	steps into view to block the Christmas tree.  The Child
	stares into the cage, his face contorting in horror.

					    MOTHER
			Honey, don't stare at your brother.

	The angelic child runs off.  Mother and Father simultan-
	eously finish off their martinis, and plop the empty
	glasses down.

	EXT. A PARK--THAT NIGHT

	A HAPPY COUPLE in 50's dress, pushes a baby carriage
	through the park cooing toward their bundle of joy inside.

	Father and Mother straggle from the other direction,
	creaking forward an ominously closed-up, wickedly de-
	signed baby carriage that serves to muffle nasty whining
	and thumping noises.

					    HAPPY COUPLE
			Merry Christmas!

	Father and Mother fake a smiling response that dies as
	the happy couple passes.  They then brake at the railing
	of a storybook bridge over a bubbling brook.  With dark
	nonchalance, Father and Mother each grab an end of the
	carriage and heave it upward.

	EXT. THE CARRIAGE--NIGHT

	swirls in the air and splashes down into the small river.
	Right side up, the carriage gently rides the tranquil
	rapids.  It bobs through an open sewer tunnel pipe.

	INT. THE SEWER--NIGHT

	The carriage innocently slides through the murky waters
	of the awesomely cavernous and creepy sewer, softly
	surfing its sides.

	INT. A DARK LAIR--NIGHT

	The resilient carriage spews from a gaping pipe into a
	moat of water that surrounds a vast patch of snow and
	ice that is the centerpiece of a dark and mysterious
	lair.

	The carriage rides a small wave that tumbles it onto the
	sanctuary's arctic island.  From out of the darkness of
	the lair, FOUR STATUESQUE EMPEROR PENGUINS WITH
	DISTINGUISHED GRAY BELLIES regally approach the
	carriage and surround it with spooky authority.

	FROM OUT OF THE DARKNESS OF THE OPENING CREDITS WE
	GO TO...

	EXT. A STORE--EARLY EVENING OF THE CURRENT ERA

	where the Batman logo fills the frame with a portentous
	soundtrack boom.  A playful salvo of snowballs reverber-
	ates against this image as the logo is revealed to be a
	hanging centerpiece in the window of a Batman merchandis-
	ing store, along with Batman sleds, lunch boxes,
	T-shirts, and ticking clocks.

	EXT. GOTHAM PLAZA--EARLY EVENING

	Bathed in pristine snow and packed with GIDDY SHOPPERS,
	POINSETTIA GRASPING LOVERS, BLESSED CAROLERS, and an
	overwhelming array of Christmas decoration, the intimate
	Plaza center of Gotham City has been dragged kicking and
	screaming into a state of beauty and happiness.

	A vivid electronic teletype reads:  HAVE A MERRY ONE,
	GOTHAM CITY!  YOU DESERVE IT!  FOUR SHOPPING DAYS
	LEFT, GO-GO-GO!

	Meeting up before a bustling department store called
	SHRECK'S, an AGGRESSIVELY ALL-AMERICAN DAD holds up a
	bowed Batman sled to an ALL-AMERICAN MOM.  An ALL-
	AMERICAN SON rushes up causing All-American Dad to
	exaggeratedly hide the present behind his back to the
	sweetly hooting delight of All-American Mom.

	Just behind them, an ADORABLE LITTLE GIRL takes a dollar
	from her precious little purse and gives it to a
	SALVATION ARMY SANTA.  A sweet, microphoned voice wafts
	out over the Plaza.

					    SWEET MICROPHONED VOICE (O.S.)
			Could I have your attention, Gotham
			City?

	EXT. FROM AN ELEVATED STAGE AT THE CENTER OF THE
	PLAZA--EVENING

	A dewy-eyed young lovely, wearing a snow bunny fur,
	a tiara, and a banner streamed across her chest
	that reads ICE PRINCESS, continues into her mike.

					    ICE PRINCESS
			It's time for tonight's Lighting
			of the Tree!  How 'bout that!

	The merrily promenading Consumers of Gotham City stop
	to joyously beam up to the stage to watch the Ice
	Princess scurry to a massive Red Button and press it
	down.  This action causes a mammouth Christmas Tree to
	grandiosely come to light.  The hypnotized crowd erupts
	into aashs and oohs.

	INT. A VERTICAL SEWER GRATE--EVENING

	Through a grand, vertical half-circle sewer grate, an
	older stranger pair of eyes peer.  Taking the point of
	view of the eyes through the grate slats, one takes in
	the sight of the mammouth lit Christmas Tree, just as it
	did through the Playpen bars.

					    THE VOICE OF PENGUIN
			It is so beautiful, I could die.
			I must have been born around
			Christmas time, because every year
			I get the same intense desires to
			scream, cry, and freely engage in
			violent bodily eruptions.

	EXT. OUTSIDE THE SEWER GRATE--EVENING

	A sickly duo of black, webbed hands curl out around the
	grate bars.  Eerily poking out next is a twisted bird-
	like nose and a creepy pair of lips...

					    PENGUIN'S LIPS
			Gosh, I guess I should really get
			out more...

	The planet's most beloved butler, ALFRED, marches past
	the sewer grate carrying a ludicrously wrapped object
	that is shaped like a mini-Tyrannosauras Rex.  He moves
	to the parked Wayne Rolls-Royce and pulls off a ticket
	from the windshield with a huff.

	A PAPERBOY bustles up, holding up a newspaper headlined
	PENGUIN:  MAN OR MYTH OR SOMETHING WORSE?

					    PAPERBOY
			Sir, read about the latest sighting
			of the Penguin creature!  Says here
			he derailed a Trolley car into a
			modeling school for Gifted Children
			and then blew up a church where...

					    ALFRED
			Dear Boy, sometimes it is a pleasure
			to believe in fairy tales.  Other
			times it is merely annoying...

	Alfred cheerfully shakes his head as the Paperboy
	scampers off.  Alfred suddenly feels a chill coming
	behind him.  He turns to the sewer grate just as the
	slimy flippers recoil back away.

	INT. INSIDE THE SEWER GRATE--EVENING

	His back turned to the viewer and wearing a black, thick,
	full-length, and grimily wraith-like coat-cape, PENGUIN
	pulls back from the grate.  He is lowered down from the
	grate to the sewer floor by a Rubber Duck Scissor-Lift
	Buggy apparatud being cranked by TWO DWARVES.

	An eerily attentive gauntlet of wildly intense SOCIAL
	PIRATES, listens upward on either side of the macabre
	sewer tunnel--Depraved workers from a long since bank-
	rupted carnival.  Unvibrantly made-up and demeanored
	CLOWNS who have never made anyone laugh brush up against
	STEELY DAMES in tight, tattered, and faded Magician
	Assistant Costumes.  All members of the gang have a RED
	TRIANGLE painted over their left eye.

					    PENGUIN
			Look out and behold the joyous
			faces.  All the wonderful smiles.
			I wish there was a way to keep
			all those wonderful smiles...

	The fleshy-beaked Penguin grandly turns to reveal himself
	in his squat, quivering, quasi-mutant glory.

					    PENGUIN
			in a jar...where I could shake
			them up and watch them turn into
			mushy goo...Oh my outcast friends,
			I am about to become Gotham City's
			best nightmare.

	Penguin elegantly opens up an umbrella to pass beneath
	a sewer drip.  He flicks open an ornately odd timepiece
	that reads twenty minutes until seven.

					    PENGUIN
			This city is one big happy
			family....for about twenty more
			minutes.  My previous crimes were
			party favors.  Tonight, Gotham
			gets a real present.

	Penguin lets off a homely squawk of laughter and juts
	forward through his chilling carny co-horts, who fall
	into line behind him.

	EXT. BEFORE SHRECK'S DEPARTMENT STORE--NIGHT

	AN ELEGANT GOTHAMCLOCK clacks to 15 till.  A Limousine,
	passing beneath it, incongruously bearing a cutesy cat
	logo, rumbles to a stop before the Shreck store.
	Emerging out the limo is MAX SHRECK, the charismatic
	Master of Gotham City.  A smattering of flashbulbs
	explode upon his placidly smiling face.  Max is the
	quintessential Upstanding Citizen, owner of everything
	except perhaps a soul.

	Following Max out is a legal pad scribbling, file
	grasping SELINA KYLE, his beautiful beneath bifocals and
	a subdued haircut assistant, along with a blindingly
	grinning yuppie superhero CHIP, muscles on the verge of
	shredding open his Brooks Brothers suit.

	Max doles a gleefully robotic array of handshakes and
	waves, culminating in a slap to the Salvation Army
	Santa's back.  He wings a twenty in Mr. Kringle's coffer
	as T.V. REPORTER BIX CARBONDALE.

					    BIX CARBONDALE
			Hello, Mr. Shreck, Bix Carbondale,
			Goth TV.  Our viewers want to know
			what the man who has everything
			wants for Christmas?

					    MAX
			Clinches.  Bix, I want clinches
			for Christmas.  Peace in Gotham.
			Love between all Men and Woman.
			Understanding.

	The small crowd applauds.  Selina bobbles out a sheet
	of paper from a file, into a sewer grate.  Chip shakes
	his head.

	INT. BELOW IN THE SEWER--NIGHT

	The sheet wobbles down to a sea of looking up through the
	darkness faces.  Penguin's is in the middle, seething
	upwards at the grandstanding atop the grate Max.

						PENGUIN
			Peace and Love and--oh, what I
			wouldn't give to be able to vomit
			upward.  I, I must be getting
			sentimental.  So many fools in
			Gotham City and I only want to kill
			one of them, and it's not even
			Batman.  I despise Max Shreck more
			than the city itself, because he
			is the city itself.  He wants
			Clinches for Christmas?  How about
			smug, powerful businessman turned
			into squealing jelly by
			misunderstood monster.

	EXT. TOP OF THE SHRECK BUILDING--NIGHT

	The viewer goes from the bottom to the top.  The top
	floor of the building housing the department store is
	a tower of Ivory with a large, friendly sentinel of
	a cat at its tippy top.

	A group of men stand in the window of it, pointing down
	to the Plaza below.

	INT. MAX SHRECK'S OUTER OFFICE--NIGHT

	The Men staring down at Max are THE MAYOR and HIS
	STAFF.  A Shreck Cat Logo Clock on the wall loudly
	clicks to 7:50.

					    HEAD STAFFER
			Mr. Mayor, how do you think Shreck
			is going to react when you tell
			him "No" on the chemical plant.
			I'm not sure he's exactly heard
			that word before.  He might not
			know what it means.

					    MAYOR
			Max isn't just Gotham's primary
			business investor, he's my friend.
			My pal.  And he'll respect my
			decision as Mayor...God, my city
			is beautiful.

	EXT. THE MERCHANDISING STORE--NIGHT

	The multitude of ticking Batwing clocks click toward
	seven o'clock.  TWO BEAT COPS roam up before the window.

					    BEAT COP ONE
			So the woman said she felt a cold
			clammy flipper on her neck.  When
			she awoke, she saw this thing with
			a nose that...

					    BEAT COP TWO
			Man, no more Penguin stories.  Let
			Batman worry about it.

	A LURID VOLUPTUOUS WOMAN with a massive Cindy Crawford
	mole times 90, in a long coat, sashays toward the uncom-
	fortably transfixed cops.  She holds a large open compact
	over her face and pulls out some lipstick.  From out the
	back of her coat, two PYTHONS slide down the backs of her
	legs.

	INT. MAX SHRECK'S CONFERENCE ROOM--NIGHT

	The Mayor and his staff scurry behind Max as he pushes
	open an imposing set of tall doors revealing his confer-
	ence room in its tech-noir splendor.  On the wall are
	the words SHRECK CORPORATION and a logo of the friendly
	cat, along with a teletype that blows stock numbers by
	at an amusingly-impossible-for-a-real-human-to-read rate.

					    MAX SHRECK
			Sorry to keep you waiting, Mayor.
			How's the family?  And your
			dachshund?  King is his name, no?

					    MAYOR
			Uh, fine.  We're all fine, well,
			actually the vet says my dog...

	Max slides open a piece of an oddly O-shaped conference
	table and goes on to a bizarre chair in the open middle
	--part sci-fi, part Dentist.  Max electronically spins
	the chair to whoever he addresses.  Everyone hustles into
	seats around him.

					    MAX
			How interesting.  You remember my
			assistant Selina Kyle, and of
			course, Chip.

					    SELINA
			.....hi.....

					    CHIP
			Gentlemen, I have the feeling we're
			about to make some serious cabbage.

					    SELINA
				  (gulping courage)
			Before we get started, I was
			wondering if we could address the
			Education Initiative...

	The men at the table gaze to Selina in dumbfounded
	silence.  Max smoothly breaks it.

					    MAX SHRECK
			Before "we" start, I think our
			coffee needs to be addressed.

					    CHIP
				  (super-smug)
			Double Expresso pour moi.

	Selina gloomily backs out the door to the calls of "Me
	too", "Make mine a cappuccino" and "Do you have Decaf?"

					    SELINA
			But uh...

					    MAX SHRECK
			Selina.  Go away.  Do not fret,
			gentlemen, if our meeting goes
			well, I'll let you watch me spank
			her.

	INT. OUTER OFFICE--NIGHT

	Selina cringes at the subsequent laughter as a gleeful
	Chip slams the door behind her.  Alone, by her desk,
	Selina begins to bang her forehead with the palm of her
	hand.

					    SELINA
			You stupid corn dog.  Corn dog.
			Corn dog.  Corn dog.

	She sullenly scribbles "Obey" on a post-it pad which
	she then sticks on the edge of her computer beside a
	garden of other girlishly masochistic post-its like
	"Don't Have a Sense of Humor," and "Save it for your
	diary,".  She sadly gnaws a piece of licorice from
	a package labeled MAX and sighs out ther window to get a
	strange glimpse of a GIANT, WRAPPED, RED-BOWED PRESENT
	puttering between two buidings.

	INT. THE CONFERENCE ROOM--NIGHT

	Max spins to the Mayor.  A Digital wall clock pings to
	7:55.

					    MAX SHRECK
			Barring anymore aggressive
			embarrassment, I'd like to set a
			start date for the construction
			of my chemical plant.

	The Mayor coughs into a response that must have sounded
	better during its bathroom mirror practice.  Max
	confidently rises.

					    MAYOR
			Max Shreck, my friend, you're the
			pillar of this community.  Pillar.
			There is no citizen whom Gotham
			values more.  No citizen.  Your
			buildings, your stores, your
			factories, your oil wells, your
			licorice...

					    MAX SHRECK
			Your point?

					    MAYOR
			I've got to refuse permission on
			the chemical plant construction.
			Those environmentalists have
			really been on my back.  I just...
			I'm so sorry, I'll make it up to
			you, I'll...

	His back turned to his guests, Max's pleasant demeanor
	chills into a look of horror; his smile gone for the
	first time.  His naked glare of betrayal dies into a
	calm three second blink.

	Keeping his voice barely under control, he comforts the
	sighing-in-relief Mayor and his staff.  While speaking,
	Max reaches to an open MUSIC BOX THAT PLAYS NO MUSIC.
	A ballerina figure typically spins on top, but an odd
	arrangement of needles stick out of the exposed innards
	of the box.  Max twists one of the needles.

					    MAX SHRECK
			Please, Mayor, don't drool.  Or
			apologize.  I appreciate your
			honesty.  I mean, it is not the
			first time we have had a
			disagreement.
				  (turning and smiling)
			Golly, actually it is, isn't it?

					    MAYOR
				  (enthusiastically
				   consoling)
			But I'm sure it's going to be
			the last time!

					    MAX SHRECK
				  (clenched teeth)
			You're right.

	Max's shuddering is distracted by the noise of a wowed
	crowd outside his window.  Everyone bounds up to peek
	out....

	EXT. GOTHAM PLAZA--NIGHT

	The Gargantuan Christmas Present is rolling into the
	Plaza.  Gothamites continue to gasp in wonder.

					    THE ADORABLE LITTLE GIRL
			It's the mostest prettiest thing
			I've ever....

	BY THE WAYNE ROLLS ROYCE--NIGHT

	Alfred gives his wrapped dinosaur a last fierce and
	painstaking push to get it into his trunk.  Slamming the
	trunk hood down, Alfred looks to the big present.  He
	is wary.  The alarms on the nearby store's Batman clocks
	go off at seven o' clock.

	INT. SEWER--NIGHT

	Hearing the excited murmurs of the crowd above, Penguin
	grins and barks into his headset that has the
	meticulously crude flavor of a Renaissance contraption.

					    PENGUIN
			Deck the halls.

	EXT. THE PLAZA--NIGHT

	One can make out motorcycle wheels churning beneath the
	box and even some moving feet when suddenly the front
	of the box tears open.  With a rebel yell, the sour
	creme de la creme of the GANG of SURLY CARNIVAL DENIZENS
	WITH RED TRIANGLES OVER THEIR LEFT EYES blitzkrieg the
	crowd, including the All-American Family.  A pack of
	disturbingly leathered and helmeted BIKERS on Demonhead
	motorcycles with spiked-for-ice wheels joybuzz forth.

	EXT. THE MERCHANDISING STORE--NIGHT

	The Lurid Woman snaps down her compact to reveal she
	has lipsticked a red triangle over her left eye.

					    BEAT COP ONE
			The Red Triangle Circus Gang!

	The Beat cops freak and reach for their guns, only to
	each find a python slithering up their leg.

	EXT. THE PLAZA--NIGHT

	Also scrambling out are TWO SNEERING BALD MEN, who wear
	massive BLADE TIPS encrusted atop their bare skulls like
	Industrial Mohawks.  A ragged SWORD SWALLOWER struts
	forward tugging an excaliber from his salivating mouth.
	A YOUNGER SURLY PUNK appears wearing a lightly smoking
	neon sign, blinking the word CIRKUS, as a humongous
	chain necklace over his chest.

	A STRONGMAN COVERED IN TATTOOS swipes the precious purse
	of the Adorable Little Girl and swallows it in one gulp.
	An appearing Alfred pushes him away and races off with
	the Little Girl.

	The Carolers flitter off, shell-shocked.  They absurdly
	continue to sing their carol in a frightened tone of
	voice.

	The last one to emerge from the surrogate Trojan horse
	is a scowling creep in RINGMASTER garb--long black
	boots, tight white pants, along with a flowing scarf.
	He wears painted red triangles over his entire face and
	atop his head is the same bizarre headset Penguin wears.
	He casually elbows Santa to the ground.

					    RINGMASTER
			Ringmaster to Penguin.  They love
			the present.  My gang won't let
			you down.

	INT. THE SEWER--NIGHT

	Penguin savors the bedlam, dancing to the shrieks.

	EXT. THE PLAZA--NIGHT

	The Batman sled slams against a police car windshield.
	A disgruntled COMMISSIONER GORDON sputters out into
	his radio.

					    GORDON
			What are you waiting for?  Turn
			it on!....Turn on the Light.

	EXT. THE GOTHAM SKY--NIGHT

	THE RENOWNED BAT BEACON blazes onto the edge of the
	night.

	INT. WAYNE MANOR--NIGHT

	The Bat Beacon can be seen through an elegant mansion
	window.  Its reflection is picked up in an ornate mirror
	in the massive living room and then followed to another
	strategically set up mirror.  The reflection glows
	against the face of a sitting-in-darkness Bruce Wayne.
	He moves out of the light.

	INT. THE SEWER--NIGHT

	Penguin gazes through the grate to behold the beacon in
	the sky.

					    PENGUIN
			Well, it's about time.  Ooh, I'm
			so scared.  Come on, Batman, you
			posterboy sell-out.  I'm the real
			thing and you're just a gym

	EXT. THE PLAZA--NIGHT

	A fleeing Ice Princess shoves an Elderly Woman to the
	ground.

	Various Red Triangle Circus Gang members sack the out-
	skirts of Shreck's department store, swiping goods and
	rearranging the window displays in obscene fashion.  The
	head of a Mrs. Claus mannequin is belted into an oven.

	The Massive Teletype reads:  TIS THE SEASON TO BE
	JOLLY...

	TERRIFYING CLOWNS scramble atop some wheeled Scaffolding
	(that houses the stage lights) and thunder quasi-antique
	artillery into the Christmas tree, blasting off ornaments
	and lights.  The Knifeskulled Men savagely bow down and
	cut cables running up to the tree, cutting off its
	brilliant light.

	The Massive Teletype reads:  FA LA LA LA LA ---- LA LA LA
	LA.

	INT. THE CONFERENCE ROOM--NIGHT

	The Mayor drops his jaw along with the other men at the
	window.

					    MAYOR
			Oh beautiful, I'm going to get
			blamed for this.

	EXT. THE PLAZA--NIGHT

	Ringmaster and some of his co-horts stand back and laugh
	at the chaos.  Their mirth is slowly strangled by the
	dreaded sound of a supersonically humming engine.  The
	Innocent and the Profane stop beating and being beaten
	to look to the increasing engine noise.

	The Batmobile rockets toward the viewer, the bat beacon
	reflecting off the windshield.  The viewer's viewpoint
	moves through the windshield to face the harshly concen-
	trating BATMAN!

	Making its megagrand entrance, the Batmobile plows
	through the gargantuan, opened present, shredding it to
	pieces.

	Batman slams down a lever.

	Oblong strips of the Batmobile sprout out from the
	vehicle's sides, like wings, to ferociously trip up
	darting past bikers and viciously lovetap various
	carnival hoodlums into spiraling upward unconsciousness.

	Many Red Triangle Circus Gang Members, snarling minutes
	before, run away in hysteria.  The Sword Swallower re-
	devours his sword and the Lurid Snake Charmer Dame
	scoops up her pythons.

	The Terrifying Clown gunmen fire frantically down from
	the scaffolding as the Batmobile rams the wheeled
	platform from the back and drives it closer and closer
	toward the Batman merchandising store.  THUGS IN NOVELTY
	NOSE AND GLASSES fulminate bullets at the back of the
	buffeting Batmobile.

	Batman brakes the Batmobile.  The Inertia-ed Scaffolding
	fiercely slams into the store, sending the Terrifying
	Clowns violently smashing down upon the memorabilia.

	Batman twists a square black Knob.  A powerful STEEL
	JACK-TYPE DEVICE jets out the bottom of the Batmobile and
	barber-seats the vehicle up off the ground.  The
	Batmobile does a sharp 180 degree spin on the jack to
	face the firing thugs.  Batman re-twists the knob.  The
	jack slams back up into the Batmobile as the vehicle
	charges toward the novelty Bespectacled Gunmen.

	INT. THE SEWER--NIGHT

	A Bashed Gunmen slams down upon the sewer grate into the
	suddenly depressed Penguin's viewpoint.

					    PENGUIN
				  (into head-set)
			Batman!  Who invited him anyway?
			Ringmaster, don't panic!  Just
			remember he's just some guy with
			a better costume.  Complete your
			mission.  We caused this chaos
			for a reason!  To get Max
			Shreck!

	EXT. THE PLAZA--NIGHT

	Ringmaster dashes off toward the Shreck building, waving
	along the Neon Necklaced Punk, and the Knifeskulls.

					    RINGMASTER
			Oh yeah....Come on, men, we
			gotta get that Shreck guy.

	With a cackle, the CIRKUS flashing punk gives a STRAY
	BLACK CAT an arching kick.  The cat lands on his feet,
	giving the passing gang members a means-business glower.

	EXT. INT. THE BATMOBILE--NIGHT

	With a joystick, Batman raises out a Gatlin-style gun,
	from the Batmobile, that fires out a wild, artistically
	modulated set of steel pieces, chunks, and arrows.  With
	ridiculous precision, the steel projectiles slam through
	the spokes of the terrorizing motorcycles upending them
	and their riders into nasty convulsions.

	Batman focuses upon the Tattooed Strongman angrily
	chasing Alfred and the Little Girl.  He maneuvers the
	joystick that controls the steel spewing apparatus.

					    BATMAN
			Alfred, you rogue...

	A steel star thunks into the back of the Strongman's
	head, crumpling him to the ground.  Alfred stops to
	broadly beam at the passing Batmobile.

	EXT. BEHIND THE STAGE--NIGHT

	Batman steers behind the stage and bounds out.  He
	activates the security cloak over the Batmobile.

	INT. THE SHRECK CONFERENCE ROOM--NIGHT

	The Mayor beams.

					    MAYOR
			I'm gonna get credit for this!

	INT. THE OUTER OFFICE--NIGHT

	A spooked Selina turns from the window to the sight and
	sound of the outer office doors heaving in and out from
	unseen ramming.  She swerves toward the conference room.
	A bullet neatly destructs the left heel of her high heel
	shoe.

	INT. CONFERENCE ROOM--NIGHT

	Everyone freezes toward the commotion going outside the
	tall conference room doors.  Chip takes off and folds
	his blazer, with a laugh of superiority.

					    CHIP
			Gentlemen, don't be afraid.

	He cockily strides toward the noises when the doors slam
	open, crunching him out cold.  Ringmaster and company
	scramble into the room.  Neon Necklace is holding
	Selina.

					    MAX SHRECK
			Gentlemen, let's be afraid.
				  (regarding inert
				   Chip)
			Somebody is not getting a
			Christmas bonus.  Good help is
			hard to...I'm sorry, can I help
			you?

					    RINGMASTER
			Definitely.  We're here to
			kidnap the man who runs Gotham
			City.

					    MAYOR
			Oh no, please....

	The Mayor and his staff break for the door.  The
	Knifeskulls shove their skullblades against the necks of
	two of them.  Neon flicks out a cumbersomely quirky stun-
	gun that has a stream of laser going from one skull
	ornament on one side of the gun to another skull on the
	other.  He stuns the Mayor to his knees.

					    RINGMASTER
				  (laughing, into
				   headset)
			Did you hear that?  The Mayor
			thought we were talking about
			him!

	INT. THE SEWER--NIGHT

	The Penguin squawks in laughter.

					    MAX
			Priceless!  Tell Max he's raw
			scuzz and the epitome of the evil
			of banality...

	INT. THE CONFERENCE ROOM--NIGHT

	Ringmaster shoves on a pair of unusual brass knuckles.
	Protruding out of each knuckle is a small red fluid-
	filled syringe half.

					    RINGMASTER
			Max, you are raw scuzz and the
			epit--
				  (to headset)
			What was that second part?

	INT. SEWER--NIGHT

	Penguin quietly simmers.

					    PENGUIN
			Pinhead.  Just.  Lock away the
			Mayor.  And bring Max down here
			now!

	EXT. THE PLAZA--NIGHT

	With a loud crack, Batman head-butts a rising up Biker
	back down to the ground.  A gauntlet of drained
	bystanders and snapshooting Tourists cheer.  Commissioner
	Gordon sidles up beside Batman, huffing to keep pace
	with the determinedly walking forward hero.

					    GORDON
			Thanks for the assistance,
			Batman.
				  (with a good-natured
				   huff)
			Thanks for doing everything and
			making us look like idiots.  So
			it's the Red Triangle Circus Gang.
			Three years ago, their carnival
			went out of business and...

					    BATMAN
			I know who they are.  They've
			improved.

					    GORDON
			The leaders are in the Shreck
			building.  The Mayor and Max
			himself are up there.  Do you
			need any...

					    BATMAN
			No.

					    GORDON
			But you can't just...

					    BATMAN
			Yes.

	Batman quickens his pace, leaving Gordon and his words
	behind.  He gives Alfred a subtle smile on his way to the
	Shreck building.

	EXT. BEHIND THE STAGE--NIGHT

	Another straggly squadron of Carnival creeps, including
	the Dwarves, ninja out from under a manhole and crawl
	toward the Batmobile.

	A BAREFOOT WAIF IN PRE-FAIRY GODMOTHER CINDERELLA
	RAGS, and with a dirty bandage over one eye, climbs
	atop the Security cloak with a fascinatingly crude laser
	device.

	The waif dexterously jimmies the laser and with a whoosh,
	the shield sputters off.  Everyone eerily commences snap-
	ping pictures including the Penguin, poking his head out
	of the manhole.

					    PENGUIN
			Oh Batman, what you don't know,
			won't hurt me...

	INT. SHRECK BUILDING HALLWAY--NIGHT

	Neon Necklaced Punk holds his aggressively unique stun
	gun on Selina, pushing her down the hall.  She awkwardly
	hobbles on one heel.

					    NEON NECKLACED PUNK
			Move it, low-life secretary...

					    SELINA
			I prefer low-life assistant,
			thank you.  I probably should
			just shut up, but you know, this
			was a very serious pair of shoes
			you ruined.  Couldn't you have
			just been a prince and broken my
			jaw?  My body will heal, but this
			was the last pair left in my
			size.
				  (with revealed
				   anger)
			Oh, and next time, Scooter,
			remember to shoot the other heel.

	With her existing heel, Selina slams out into Neonpunk's
	knee, knocking the stun gun out of his hand onto a nearby
	carpet and him to the ground.

	He seethes in sync to his flashing Neon necklace then
	bolts up toward the stun gun on the center when suddenly
	the carpet is viciously pulled out from under him,
	somersaulting him into a vivid sparking heap.

	Selina breathlessly turns to see Batman at the end of
	the carpet.  He begins to roll it up, semi-oblivious to
	Selina's tentatively delirious verbiage.

					    SELINA
			Cheap but effective.  How are you
			with pies and banana peels?
			There's more of them, coming
			around....Like the carpet, huh?
			A collector?  Wow, the Batman--
			or is it just Batman.  You look
			a lot better in person...I,
			I'm...

					    BATMAN
			Nice shoes.

	Batman hands a stunned Selina the stun gun and hoists up
	the rolled-up carpet, charging off.

	EXT. BEHIND THE STAGE--NIGHT

	The Batmobile's hood is up and its doors are open.
	Penguin's disciples continue to whisk around the
	Batmobile like paparazzi, flashing their cameras.

	INT. ANOTHER HALLWAY CORRIDOR--NIGHT

	A convoy lead by the two Knifeskulls swaggers out from
	Shreck's office.  Ringmaster holds his syringe knuckles
	against Max's neck.

					    RINGMASTER
			How does it feel to know you're
			going to...

					    MAX
			Please...You're a pimple and I'm
			a respected face.  I give you five
			minutes.

	The rolled up carpet whooshes up in the air and smack dab
	impales itself on the blades of the Knifeskulls, locking
	them together.  Batman, with a fist a piece, violently
	bashes them over.

					    MAX
			Make it two.

					    RINGMASTER
			You really think you can take me
			down, Mr. man-bat?

					    BATMAN
			Sure.

					    RINGMASTER
			One move and...

	Batman gunslingers out his grapple speargun.  The wired
	hook deftly smashes the syringes off Ringmaster's
	knuckles.  Red fluid from the syringes splashes onto
	Ringmaster's hand.  He howls and hobbles as Batman
	saunters toward him, reeling in his gun.

					    BATMAN
			Sh-h-h...

	In one swift-straight arm gesture, Batman shoves the
	Ringmaster's skull into the wall, cracking the headset
	with a quick whine.

	EXT. BEHIND THE STAGE--NIGHT

	Penguin furiously yanks off his now also whining headset.

					    BATMAN
			Imbeciles.  I knew I should have
			hired a better gang... Hey, it's
			a wrap.

	Penguin's people stop their shutterbugging.  The
	Batmobile hood is slammed shut and the Waif reactivates
	the security shield as the gang scrambles back into the
	manhole.

	INT. THE HALLWAY--NIGHT

	Ringmaster finally collapses out of the wall.  Batman
	steps before his dropping body.  Max reaches out for a
	firm handshake.

					    MAX SHRECK
			Batman.  You certainly live up to
			your hype.  I hope I am not being
			overly immodest in saying that
			this is your finest hour.  By
			saving me, you have saved the
			city.

					    MAYOR
				  (bustling up)
			Good evening, Caped Crusader!  I
			never tire of watching you work.
			With me in the front office and
			you on the streets, we are one
			unstoppable crimefighting team.
				  (to Max)
			Let's get some shots of the three
			of us...

	The babbling Mayor is silenced as he turns to see that
	Batman is nowhere to be seen.

	EXT. THE SHRECK BUILDING--NIGHT

	An exhausted, quivering Selina wobbles out of the
	building with a sigh.  She compassionately bends down
	to the black cat that was kicked earlier and picks it
	up.  She shambles out through the devastation that was
	once a winter wonderland.

	Max and Chip next saunter from the building, politely
	beaming to snapping flashbulbs.  Max shakes some more
	hands and accepts some congratulatory arm squeezes.

					    BIX CARBONDALE
			How do you feel, Mr. Shreck?

					    MAX
			Boy Bix, I just want to curl up
			with some cocoa and watch this
			craziness on the news.

	The bystanders and camera crews chuckle as Max and Chip
	march off toward the Shreck limousine.  Max's smile de-
	materializes.

					    MAX
			I'm in a bad mood.  Remind me to
			take it out on everyone.

	Stepping forward to the limo, Max and Chip FALL THROUGH
	AN OPENING SEWER GRATE AND COMPLETELY OUT OF SIGHT.

	INT. SELINA'S APARTMENT--LATER IN THE NIGHT

	Selina lowers a dish of milk to her new cat, calling
	out.

					    SELINA
			Honey, I'm home!.....Oh that's
			right, I'm not married.

	She wearily laughs at her private joke then takes in a
	view of her 90's quaint, too-protectively-feminine apart-
	ment -- pink carpet, a neon "HELLO SELINA" on the wall,
	a meticulously ornate doll house, a cactus in a pink pot,
	a sewing-needles-in-progress quilt, a paltry Christmas
	tree, and a pretty embarrassing assortment of stuffed
	animals.  The cat purrs.

					    SELINA
			What did you just purr, Miss Kitty?
			"How can anyone be so pathetic?"
			Yeah, well, takes years of hard
			work, unappreciated hard work.  At
			least I got to meet Batman, eh?

	She absently triggers her new stun gun on and off then
	raises up a tiny remote square and fires it at her
	answering machine.  As the voice of a STERN MOTHER fills
	the air, Selina tidys up her place.  She retrieves Diet
	Cola cans and Shreck Yogurt cartons passing childhood
	pictures of a YOUNGER HAPPIER SELINA on a trampoline, on
	a horse, and on the side of a mountain.

					    STERN MOTHER'S VOICE
			Selina.  This is your Mother,
			just calling to say Hello...

					    SELINA
			Yeah, right...."But..."

					    MOM'S VOICE
			"But" I'm disappointed you're not
			coming home for Christmas.  I was
			looking forward to discussing your
			life.  I mean really, why you
			insist on living in Gotham City
			alone...

	Selina casually squeezes up her remote to fast forward
	the machine.  As the Cat compassionately snuggles up
	beside her to the sound of her lame boyfriend, Selina
	kneels down to do some minute tooling on the rooms of her
	precious doll house.

					    LAME BOYFRIEND'S VOICE
			Selina, about that Christmas
			getaway we planned, I think we
			should break up instead.  I'm not
			afraid anymore to say I need a
			woman who's going to treat me like
			a hero, not a zero.  I...

					    SELINA
				  (hurt
				   fast-forwarding)
			Wow, the party never stops on
			Selina Kyle's machine?  I guess
			I should have let him win that
			racquetball game.

	Selina clomps into her kitchenette and turns on a faucet
	that wildly sprays out in all directions as her own voice
	comes on.

					    SELINA'S OWN VOICE
			Hi Selina, this is yourself
			calling.  I'm reminding you that
			you better have brought home the
			Bruce Wayne file to work on,
			because Max Slavemaster is meeting
			with him tomorrow.

	Wet and angry, Selina drops her remote and instead fires
	her stun gun on the answering machine, shutting it off.
	She again starts banging her forehead with her palm.

					    SELINA
			The File.  You stupid corn dog.
			Corn dog.  Corn dog.  Corn dog...
				  (putting on coat)
			You black cats are for real, aren't
			you?

	EXT. THE GROUNDS OF THE OLD GOTHAM ZOO--NIGHT

	The viewer plunges through the decrepit gates of a stag-
	gering, abandoned zoo--a centerpiece of a perverse
	World's Fair of another world.  Snow-covered cages and
	pits that seem more terrifying empty than if filled with
	ferocious beasts.

	The viewer connects up with a determinedly trotting,
	RATTY, SPIKY-HAIRED POODLE, wearing a strange pair of
	goggles.  The Poodle's hair rises as he passes A SEEDY
	AND DECREPIT, BUT IMPRESSIVELY MAMMOTH AND COMPLEX POWER
	STATION, that crackles with frayed wires.

	The Poodle swerves before a rickety rollercoaster that
	has three shoddy and malignant, Animal-motifed carts put-
	tering up different stages of the dilapidated track.  An
	aberrant cross section of brids ride on one of them.

	The Poodle swings toward the light of a cave lined with
	sparkling snow and ice and into....

	INT. PENGUIN'S LAIR--NIGHT

	The Lair where the Penguin baby found his home is now
	seen to be less dark, but still overpoweringly dramatic
	and bizarre.  The track of the zoo's rickety roller-
	coaster curls through the grotto.

	The cart full of birds rumbles through with its winged
	passengers flying off to join others flapping around.

	A large squalid cage.  Strange scaffolding half covers
	an enormous "Mission Control" panel that has been hodge-
	podged together with the flagrantly weird, idiosyncratic
	technology.  Actual penguins of every size (except the
	gray bellied Emperors) heedlessly horseplay in the icy
	moat.

	The Ratty Poodle takes his place at a large block of ice
	that serves as a conference table.  Gabbing around the
	table are the familiarly bonechilling survivors of the
	Unwashed Carnival Creeps.

	Everyone shuts up and goes into a standing ovation as
	Penguin rides out of the lair's vast, gaping sewer pipe
	in his Rubber Duck that now acts as a boat.  The
	Tattooed Strongman is holding Max Shreck and Chip in
	behind him.

					    PENGUIN
			We have distinguished guests.
			Please make them feel at home...

	The Circus Creeps go into shouts of "Boo" and "Can we
	torture them now" while pelting snowballs, ice airplanes
	and novelty gadgets at the beleaguered businessmen.  Max
	begins to sit down at a chair at the end of the Ice
	conference table.  Dwarf One pulls the chair out from
	under him.  Max crashes to the ground.  The gang explodes
	in laughter and the dwarf does a cute little bow.

	The moodily pondering and freezing Max cautiously reseats
	himself.  Chip makes a break.  The Bearded Lady breaks off
	an Ice stalagmite and knee-caps him to the ground.

	As Penguin snarls at Max, he is handed an array of sadis-
	tic umbrellas, which he casually tries and discards.
	One shoots out a flame, one pokes out a sword tip, one
	causes a goofy spinning hypno-vertigo swirl effect,
	another shoots a blast acid that melts through the middle
	of the table.  Max loses composure, shivering and
	sweating.

					    PENGUIN
			Up there, Max, you're the master
			of Gotham City.  Down here, the
			poodle gets a better parking
			space.
			You see, I hear your speeches
			about protecting the community,
			then see you dump toxic waste into
			the sewers.  I listen through a
			sewer grate to you promising one
			thing, then see you through a
			ventilator shaft doing another
			thing.  Don't get me wrong.  I
			got nothing against being a two-
			faced weasel, or even dumping toxic
			waste -- Stuff works good on rat
			bites...

					    MAX
			Oh really, I didn't....

					    PENGUIN
			Shut up.  It's just, why do you
			get to be a man of the people and
			I have to be the boogeyman.  It's
			not fair!

	A SMALL PENGUIN BIRD wobbles atop the table and stops to
	squawk-babble at Penguin.

					    PENGUIN
			You can say I'm jealous.  You can
			say I'm bitter.  In ten seconds,
			you're going to say a lot of
			things... in a high pitched voice...
				  (swerving to little penguin)
			Wha-a-a-t!
				  (listening)
			Oh....Try the closet in the back
			of the lair.

	The penguin wobbles away.  Penguin tentatively growls
	back at Max.

					    PENGUIN
			I....I lost my place?

					    MAX
			You were implying that I will be
			screaming in a high pitched...

					    PENGUIN
			Yeah, but don't worry, Max, I'm
			not going to kill you.  I'm just
			going to freeze you for 200 years
			until they find a cure for rich
			uppity snob powermongers.
				  (good natured laughter)
			I'm only kidding....I'm going to
			kill you.

	Lighting up a cigarette in a cigarette holder much like
	his father's, Penguin moves forward with the sword
	umbrella.  Everyone else at the table pulls forth a
	perverse weapon.  A particularly large bead of sweat
	rolls down Max's face.  Coming out of a sage three second
	blink, Max regards the cigarette holder then reaches out
	with his tongue and licks off the bead.

					    MAX
			You're not going to do anything
			to me, Penguin.

					    PENGUIN
			Oh, I'm not?  Okay, well, if you
			put it that way.  Jeepers.

	Penguin rears back for a decapitating swing.

					    MAX
			Why fight the power, Penguin, when
			you can become it.

	Penguin slightly lowers his malevolent pose.  Max stands
	up and speaks faster.

					    MAX
			You despise the way this city is
			run.  So do I.  Tonight, the
			current Mayor.... disappointed me.
			I'd like to see more of a...
			free thinker in his place.

					    PENGUIN
			Me?  The New Mayor?  In case you
			hadn't noticed, I'm a mutant with
			a bad temper.

					    MAX
			You're too hard on yourself.
			Gotham has no conception of
			Morality, only Celebrity.  This
			city loves visuals.  Look at
			Batman.  Any other city and he
			would be in an institution or our
			there doing singing telegrams.
			Here, he is a hero.  You and the
			Mayor standing at the same podium
			-- I know where I'm aiming my
			camera.

	Penguin lets his umbrella sword drop to the floor.
	Sensing Penguin's change of heart, the Circus Creeps
	re-conceal their weapons.  An aching Chip stands beside
	Max.

					    PENGUIN
			Me?  Mayor?  I could walk down the
			street and no one would laugh at
			me or throw a big object at me?
			Or make one of those jokes like,
			"Did you hear that when Penguin
			was born, the doctor came out and
			the Father asked 'Doctor, doctor,
			is it a boy or a girl?'  The
			doctor says "Guess again."

	A Whinnying Clown laughs at the joke.  Penguin, with
	swift nonchalance, picks up one of the umbrellas and
	slams the Clown back over his chair.  Penguin glances
	down to a stream of Da Vinciesque (One is of the big red
	present).

					    PENGUIN
			I could get Respect....would I
			have to give up my hobbies?

					    MAX
			Terrorizing innocent people and
			committing heinous felonies?  Not
			at all.  In fact, they'll come in
			handy.

					    PENGUIN
			It all sounds divine.  Where do I
			begin?

					    MAX
				  (starting to sit)
			Anywhere but here.  I think you've
			mature past the Old Zoo hideout/
			Lair thing.  Let's talk about...

	INT. MAX'S CONFERENCE ROOM--NIGHT

	Max finishes sitting down, and his sentence, in his
	groovy chair in the middle of his conference table.
	Penguin stands on the table, being tugged into a full
	tuxedo outfit by an Ultra-Stylish-and-Polished-to-the-
	point-of-instantly-loathesome Man and Woman named PUNCH
	AND JULIET.  They smoothly fling hats and accessories on
	and off the perplexed but flattered freak.

					    MAX
			...the new Penguin.  The horrifying
			monster aspect of your personality
			has been well communicated.  My
			image consultants Punch and Juliet
			are going to bring out your more
			Mayoral smile.

					    PUNCH
			We love a challenge.  Juliet, the
			monocle?  Too much?

					    PENGUIN
			Oh how wonderful I...

					    JULIET
			Stand still.  And keep the
			umbrella.  It works for you.

	White gloves over a cringing Penguin's webbed hands.

					    PENGUIN
			These things really necessary?
			They're so warm...Mr. Shreck
			said Gotham likes visuals.

					    PUNCH
			Gotham does like visuals, but
			whoa, Pengo, come on...

					    JULIET
			Not a lot of mirror action down
			in the sewer I see...

					    PENGUIN
			Hey, you post-yuppie-modern
			punks...

					    MAX
			Is there something we can do with
			his name?..."The Penguin"...I mean,
			no offense...

					    PUNCH
			Hear ya.  Our computers came up
			with..."Oswald Cobblepot."

					    JULIET
			Unapologetically quirky, but dignified.

					    PENGUIN
				  (touched)
			A real name....Oswald Cobblepot.
			It's as sweet as cotton candy on a
			walrus's belly.

					    PUNCH
			M-m-m-m.  Good analogy.  Tomorrow
			the Mayor is going to hold a press
			conference to say that you are a
			slimy menace trying to tear the
			city down into your private hell.

					    JULIET
			You're going to prove to the people
			and the media that he is wrong.

					    PENGUIN
			But he's right...

					    MAX
			That, is beside the point.  I do
			not seem to be getting across
			the whole dual nature thing...

					    PENGUIN
			Relax...
				  (malignant)
			By night, I will cause deviously
			demented crimes that will put the
			city into a foaming frenzy.  And
			Batman into a retirement of putting
			kids on his lap at car shows.
				  (holy)
			By day, I'll cry out to the public
			that I'm the only brave soul who
			can come in and stop this wave of
			deviously demented crimes.  In a
			way, I'll be the most honest
			politician who ever lived.

					    MAX
			By George, I think he's got it.
			Punch and Juliet, leave an
			itinerary for tomorrow.

	Punch, Juliet, and the decked-out Penguin hop off the
	table.  Chip hobbles up to give Penguin an enormous money
	bag.  Punch and Juliet give him a file and a cheek kiss,
	before strutting off.

					    PENGUIN
			Wow, a non-sexual kiss from another
			male.  I feel so hip.  And Juliet,
			you don't think she'd ever, if she
			was really drunk...

					    MAX
				  (rising up)
			The money is to help with the
			campaign.

					    PENGUIN
			I mean, like really blotto...

					    MAX
			I'll be giving you a checkbook so
			you can pay off and keep in line
			the Red Triangle Circus gang and
			the rest of the city's scumbags
			that you use for your crimewave.
			I want this chaos to be organized
			....Mr. Oswald Cobblepot.

	Penguin squawks and gives a cringing Max a vigorous
	hug.

					    PENGUIN
			Oh, Max, buddy, to think I was
			going to torture and maim you...

					    MAX
			I'm sure going to miss that
			wonderful laugh.

	INT. OUTER OFFICE--NIGHT

	The new Penguin gracefully parades through the outer
	office.  He makes a royal pause before a mirror.  He
	poignantly imitates the reactions of other people.

					    PENGUIN
			Oswald Cobblepot..."Looking good,
			Oswald."  "Great game Oswald."
			"Your table is ready, Mr. Cobblepot"
			"This is hard to say, Mr.
			Cobblepot, but I think I'm in
			love with you..."

	Penguin prances out of the office doors and moves off to
	the left.  Moments later, Selina Kyle huffs in from the
	right.  She goes to her desk and picks up a file labeled
	BRUCE WAYNE.  She allows herself a schwoof smile as Max
	and Chip emerge from the conference room.  She gives off
	a wee gasp of surprise.

					    SELINA
				  (typically sheepish
				   babbling)
			Oh wow, you scared...I came back
			to get the Bruce Wayne file for
			tomorrow.  I put a reminder for
			myself in my machine at home
			because I usually check my messages
			from work, but in all the
			excitement tonight, I...

					    CHIP
			She's lying...

					    SELINA
			Pardonne, Chip...I'm what?

					    MAX
			Selina Kyle.  Did you happen to see
			who I was chatting with?  You see,
			it's imperative I not be directly
			connected with this person.

					    SELINA
			I..didn't..I swear, Mr. Shreck, I
			didn't see anything.  Cross my
			heart and hope to...Cross my
			heart.

					    MAX
			Put yourself in my position.  I'm
			a very respected man in the
			community.  If you're fibbing about
			how much you've seen and heard
			tonight, you could run off and hurt
			me.  You've been a very decent
			assistant, Selina Kyle, but is
			this a chance I can take?

					    SELINA
			Yes?

					    MAX
				  (stepping forward)
			Is your life as important as my
			reputation?

					    SELINA
				  (stepping backward)
			Maybe?

	EXT. GOTHAM STREET--NIGHT

	The Batmobile putters down a deserted Gotham street.

	INT. BATMOBILE--NIGHT

	Alfred's face comes on a screen in the Batmobile.

					    ALFRED (screen)
			It is about time you came back,
			you..

					    BATMAN
			Soon.  The Red Triangle Circus
			Gang were always just cheap
			thrillseekers.  Silly.  Easy.
			Not tonight.

					    ALFRED
			You do not think there is any
			truth to this dark lord of the
			gangs, this evil king of the
			sewers...this Platypus Man, or
			whatever he is..

					    BATMAN
			Penguin.

					    ALFRED
			Surely he is cheap tabloid
			fabrication created to sell papers
			to people who can't read...

					    BATMAN
			That's what they said about me.

	INT. THE OUTER OFFICE--NIGHT

	Selina begins to leak a couple tears.

					    SELINA
			What is this?  How can you be so
			mean to someone as meaningless as
			me...Don't you see, Mr. Shreck,
			that I am alive in here!  I mean,
			it's not like you can just kill
			me...

					    MAX
			Actually, it's a lot like that.

	Tense silence.  Max smirks into a chuckle.  Selina
	quivers out a wary smile and wrist wipes a tear as
	Max touches her shoulder.

					    SELINA
			Oh Mr. Shreck, you frightened...

	Max savagely pushes Selina crashing out the window.

	EXT. ALLEY--NIGHT

	Selina swirls downward through shattering glass and snow-
	flakes with tragic beauty.  Her body slam spins around a
	protruding horizontal American flagpole, before continu-
	ing its White Christmas journey to the drifted gravel of
	an alley.

	Selina's eyes creak open to see the Batmobile obliviously
	motor past the mouth of the alley.

					    SELINA
			...stop...bat..man...

	Her eyes close again.  Selina's New Black Cat, of all
	creatures, scampers up beside her quasi-corpse.

	INT. THE OUTER OFFICE--NIGHT

	Max and Chip looks down through the whistling window.

					    MAX
			Let the police find her.  Make
			sure the funeral is on me.

					    CHIP
			She wanted it.

	Max and Chip stroll off from the window.

	EXT. THE ALLEY--NIGHT

	Other cats of every shape, color, and demeanor, from aw-
	so-cute tabby to violent Tom ramble into view from
	behind trash cans, boxes, and snow drifts.

	Hypnotically led by Selina's black pal, the cats creep
	from every direction toward the female Gulliver.
	Selina's cat crawls up onto Selina's blouse and begins
	to breathe into her mouth in an eerie feline C.P.R.
	ballet.

	A Siamese whispers in Selina's ear.  White powder puff
	kitties snuggle against the soles of her feet.  The
	malevolently scraggly Tom viciously bites her finger.
	Selina's eyes fly open.

	INT. SELINA'S APARTMENT--STILL LATER THAT NIGHT

	Battered, bloodied, and clutching her stoic black cat,
	Selina re-enters her apartment.  She is the malevolent
	antidote to her poignantly pleasant early evening and
	previous life self.  She auto-pilots to the sink and
	turns the broken faucet on over her bloody finger.  This
	time, no water comes out at all.

	She stares in unmoving, but torrid self-contemplation.
	Then she explodes into vivid montage:

	With a black spray paint can in each hand, Selina attacks
	everything pink and eggshell--carpet, couch, wallpaper--
	with brilliant nimbleness.

	She flings her childhood pictures off the wall and
	perfectly into a mini-bonfire (that includes her sad
	Christmas tree) set up on her kitchen nook table.

	She lustily shoves a stuffed unicorn into her garbage
	disposal.  The carnage of other ex-cute toy creatures
	are spread about.

	The black cat races about, purring in delight.

	Selina unfurls her homemade quilt in a wicked spinning
	dance.

	With a sewing needle, she repeatedly stabs her doll's
	house, annihilating the micro-detailed rooms.  In close-up,
	the rooms seem to be invaded by a giant silver missile.

	With her bare hands, she sizzlingly tears the neon
	E-L and A from SELINA, turning the neon HELLO, SELINA
	into HELLO, SIN.

	INT. THE NEXT MORNING--DAY

	As the sun rises through the windows, Selina sits in a
	lotus position on the floor of her very redone apartment.
	She is wearing only a pink football jersey which has
	been wickedly altered with black spray paint.  She slides
	a pristine bowl of milk to her content cat and speaks in
	a sultry voice.  Her Catwoman voice.

					    SELINA
			I don't know about you, Miss
			Kitty, but I feel so.  Much.
			Yummier.

	INT. BATCAVE LABORATORY--MORNING

	The sun continues to rise over the sleeping, sweating,
	cocked-back head of Bruce Wayne through a small
	batcave window.  He is leaning on a chair situated
	before a lab table teeming with beakers and bunsen
	burners.

	Flicking away his nightmare like an insect, Bruce immedi-
	ately re-concentrates on an unfathomable experiment.  He
	pours a test tube of nasty red liquid into a beaker of
	pleasant blue.

	It turns into an almost glowing purple solution.

	Bruce moves off from the table with a stark, black
	palm-size rectangular object with a computer screen that
	resembles a malevolent Gameboy.  Bruce counts off to
	five, then stops.  At five, the beaker behind him
	explodes.

	INT. WAYNE MANOR LIVING ROOM--DAY

	Alfred is standing on a stepladder stretching ornaments
	out onto a Christmas tree.  He gives an annoyed glance
	toward a blaring T.V. screen where the impressed-with-
	himself Mayor goes into a big speech made before a less
	impressed group of reporters and citizens.

					    MAYOR (T.V.)
			And Batman said to me, "Mayor,
			we're not going to let this
			happen again."
				  (stupidly dramatic)
			And I said, "You better believe
			it."

	Bruce wanders into the living room, punching at his dark
	Gameboy.  On the screen, a red dot eats up a group of
	white dots.  A bristling-at-the-Mayor's-words Alfred
	stumbles back.  Bruce effortlessly palms him back onto
	the ladder.

					    BRUCE
			Keep saying to yourself "It's
			only a T.V. show..."

	EXT. GOTHAM PLAZA--DAY

	The bored crowd musters polite applause.  The MAYOR'S
	WIFE, is seated by her droning husband, bouncing a
	baby on her lap.

					    MAYOR
			Whether this "Penguin" is ruler
			of the literal "Underworld" or
			just an old wives' tale.  I tell
			you as a leader...
				  (motioning to wife
				   and baby)
			and as a father, that I'm not
			afraid to..kick a little you know
			what...heh, heh.

	The crowd yawns up into some more lukewarm clapping when
	a gnarling THUG-ACROBAT, in a red cape and tights that
	have a red triangle across the chest, somersaults onto
	the stage and snatches up the Mayor's baby.

	The crowd screams as the Thug-Acrobat effortlessly pivot-
	kicks the Mayor to the wood and moves to the podium,
	hoisting the baby like an Oscar.

					    THUG-ACROBAT
			I'm not much on speeches... so
			I'll just say "Thanks."

	The Thug-Acrobat spin-vaults over the podium and full-
	backs through the crowd with the baby as his pigskin,
	toward an open manhole.  He dives in.  As the crowd
	hustles over, the Thug Acrobat can be heard screaming and
	fighting.

					    THUG-ACROBAT (O.S.)
			Oh no, it's the Penguin!  Help!

	INT. THE SEWER--DAY

	Penguin and the Thug-Acrobat are revealed in the sewer,
	barely containing their laughter.  They shout upward in
	bogus melodrama, while pounding the sides of the sewer
	with pipes.  The Bearded Lady gently rocks the placid
	baby.

					    THUG-ACROBAT
			Penguin, don't hurt me!

					    PENGUIN
			Take that you scoundrel!

	Penguin throws down his pipe and palatially mounts his
	Scissor-Lift apparatus.  The Bearded Lady gives him the
	baby and a blast of breath spray.  Penguin raises the
	baby as if offering it to the gods as the Dwarves crank
	upward.

	EXT. GOTHAM PLAZA--DAY

	With breathtaking theatricality, the baby ascends out of
	the manhole to the gasps of the crowd.  With suspenseful
	cranking, the baby holding hands, arms, face, and body of
	Penguin surges out to even more booming moans of wonder.

	INT. WAYNE MANOR--DAY

	Alfred and Bruce simultaneously gravitate onto a couch.

	EXT. GOTHAM PLAZA--DAY

	Still poising the baby in the air, Penguin promenades
	forward, parting the gaping sea of faces in Moses
	fashion.

	Marching up toward the microphone, Penguin delicately
	presents the gurgling baby to its grateful Mother and
	hands his hat and holstered umbrella to the brushing-
	himself-off Mayor as if the Mayor was a coat-check
	Eunuch.

					    PENGUIN
			My name is... Oswald Cobblepot.
			You call me something else.  Bank
			gets robbed, you say Penguin must
			have done it.  Bunch of Circus
			Meanies shoot the Christmas tree,
			children skip school, priests take
			drugs-- you say Penguin must have
			told them to.  I tell you, I
			haven't done anything-- and that
			goes for more than crimes.  The
			closest I ever came to playing a
			game of basketball was hearing the
			sound of dribbling on the manholes
			above my head.  The closest I ever
			came to going to a dance was
			finding a corsage in a puddle of
			sewer sludge.  The closest I ever
			came to making love to a woman...
			well, don't worry, it's way off...
			Way off...I wore that corsage for
			a week.

	Tears roll down the faces fo the moved crowd.  Punch and
	Juliet give each other a thumbs-up sign.  Mayor helpless-
	ly looks to the top hat and umbrella in his hand.

					    PENGUIN
			I've seen the city from the inside
			and I can tell you...It is the
			worst of times, it is the worst of
			times.  I have a terrible feeling,
			don't ask me how I know, that
			starting tonight there is going to
			be a major crimewave.  And Mayor,
			I don't want you to take this the
			wrong way, but if you can't
			protect your own baby, there's not
			a lot of hope for us.  Things are
			going to get a lot worse, before
			they get better.  Unless there is
			someone who can teach this city
			how to love.
			Someone who can remind you just
			how much you have.  Someone like
			me.

	The roused crowd explodes into cheers.

	INT. WAYNE MANOR--DAY

	Bruce pounds off the TV.  Alfred roams back to the tree.

					    ALFRED
				  (dryly)
			You're not crying.

					    BRUCE
			I'm not crying.  And he's not for
			real.

					    ALFRED
			Well, it's certainly the strangest
			publicity stunt I've ever...

					    BRUCE
			Publicity for what?  I don't know
			who scared me more.  Him or the
			society he so easily makes a fool
			of.
				  (darkly)
			They deserve each other.

					    ALFRED
			Should I cancel your meeting with
			Max Shreck this morning.  You seem
			a bit...
				  (to object in his
				   hand)
			Oh look, do you remember...It's
			from the Christmas just before Ms.
			Vale decided to leave Gotham City
			and...

	Alfred marvels a sparkling ornament shining VICKI toward
	a less enthused Bruce.

					   BRUCE
			I remember.  Merry Christmas,
			Vicki Vale, wherever the hell you
			are...

	Drifting off, he sadly throws the ornament, past an
	alarmed Alfred, into a raging fireplace.  A popping noise
	booms out.

	EXT. GOTHAM PLAZA--DAY

	Ornaments on the humongous Gotham Plaza Christmas Tree
	pop and explode as well.  A REPAIRMAN shouts for the
	power to be turned off and it is.  Other MECHANICS hustle
	about the tree.

	Bruce Wayne gazes at this hapless exercise and takes in
	the rest of the sweeping and clearing of last night's
	debris.  He swings toward the entrance of Shreck's
	department store.

	INT. INSIDE THE STORE--DAY

	Bruce roves through the hectic department store interior,
	visually inhaling the store's tacky decorations, its
	Batobilia wearing child patrons rattling loud toy Uzis,
	and its awesomely poisonous Chipmunk muzak.  Depressed,
	Bruce reaches the elevator.

	INT. OUTER OFFICE--DAY

	Max and Chip give deadpan stares out the shattered office
	window to the empty patch of snow in the alley below.
	Snow has wisped into the office.

					    MAX
			Hmmm, I hope nothing unduly icky
			happened to her.  Devoured by
			homeless reindeer, or perhaps...
			Bruce.

					    BRUCE
			Max.  Interesting air
			conditioning.

	Bruce Wayne enters into the office for a firm handshake
	with Max, eyes drifting to the splintered window.

					    CHIP
			Yeah, bunch of those crazy Circus
			punks were throwing rocks and...

					    BRUCE
			No.  No glass on the inside.

					    MAX
			Interesting.

	INT. CONFERENCE ROOM--DAY

	Bruce eases into a chair at the circular conference
	table.  Max paces around him.

					    MAX
			I would offer you coffee, but I am
			afraid my assistant is using her
			vacation time.  Death in the
			family.

					    BRUCE
			Had some excitement here last
			night...

					    MAX
			You don't know the half of it...My
			first experience with Batman.
			Have you ever...

					    BRUCE
			No.  What did you think of him?

					    MAX
			Hell, I thought he was terrific,
			saved me from a bunch of hyenas
			with knives on their heads.
			Little on the quiet loner side.
			We didn't exactly go out for
			drinks.  I wonder if he works
			parties... You know I'm doing the
			masquerade thing again this year.
			Bring Vicki...

					    BRUCE
			We're still not seeing...

					    MAX
			Ouch.  Vicki was too good for you.
			You need a woman with those same
			moody interests you have...

					    BRUCE
				  (chuckling)
			Sounds pretty frightening.

	Bruce loses his smile to get serious.

					    BRUCE
			I'm not coming in on the chemical
			plant.  It's an environmental joke
			and you know it.  Besides, I'm
			told the Mayor...

	Going into his Hyde mode, Max turns to his Music Box and
	again begins to abuse it, this time by poking a sharp
	instrument through the body of the spinning ballerina as
	he speaks.

					    MAX
			The Mayor problem is being dealt
			with.  Bruce, when are you going
			to drop the high and mighty
			philanthropist routine...

					    BRUCE
			Max, I'm out.  We sit on the same
			boards and panels together, but
			come on, we're different.  You got
			yourself a cute little kitty as a
			logo because those creepy market
			research handlers of yours said it
			would give you a friendlier public
			image.  But Max, I know you,
			you're a tough businessman and no
			offsense, not very cute.

						MAX
				  (to ringing phone)
			...hold that thought.

	INT. PENGUIN'S CAMPAIGN HEADQUARTERS--DAY

	A large mock-up drawing of OSWALD COBBLEPOT FOR MAYOR is
	being tacked on a wall of the top level of a warehouse/
	loft.  The Circus Spooks are roughhousing about.  The
	Tattooed Strongman is twirling a barbell while a Steely
	Garish Dame aggressively engraves a tattoo of a screaming
	Batman onto his chest.

	The viewer finally comes to Penguin barking into an all-
	white phone in an all-white (except for some bizarre
	hanging Suesslike cages filled with birds) Iglooesque
	office space.

					    PENGUIN
			Maxwell, my man, how's it hanging?
			I had that crowd in the web of my
			hand.  I bared my soul and they
			liked it!  Whoever said the Truth
			is the Ultimate Lie wasn't lying
			...Is this a bad time, pardner?

	INT. CONFERENCE ROOM--DAY

	Max grimaces a smile of pain.

	INT. PENGUIN'S OFFICE--DAY

	Pengiun covers his mouth with an agonizingly gleeful
	squawk.

					    PENGUIN
			Oops, sounds like I should of
			called to say I'd be calling.
			Blink once for yes, Blink twi--Ha!
			But seriously, Max I...

	At a window in the headquarters, outside Penguin's
	office, a pressed together band of the sideshow brigands
	gaze down to PEDESTRIANS at a lamppost across the street,
	who intermittently press a round Walk/Don't Walk button
	attached to the lamppost.

	Each time, a varied Gotham citizen presses this button, a
	new number lights up on a Scoreboardish device next to a
	stationary number of 70.  The current number is 65.

					    LURID SNAKE CHARMER
			Mr. Cobblepot, you better hurry,
			there's only eight more to go!

	Penguin lights up at her words, and hurries along Max.

					    MAX
			Well-Max-sorry-to-bother-you-for-
			the-inconvenience!  It-won't-
			happen-again-real-soon!  Sayonara-
			mon-capitaine!  May-your-days-be-
			filled-with-Bon-Voyagees.

	INT. CONFERENCE ROOM--DAY

	Getting comfortable, the deceptively chattering Max makes
	daring eye contact with Bruce.

					    MAX
			Oh now, what's the hurry,
			"pardner"?  I just think we have
			to keep a low profile on our
			hostile venture.  Did you get my
			special gift for the employees?

	INT. PENGUIN'S OFFICE--DAY

	Penguin antsily holds up a mighty stack of checks labeled
	Cobblepot Campaign Fund.  He whimpers, stretching his
	phone cord as far as it can go, unsuccessfully trying to
	jockey a glimpse out the window.

					    PENGUIN
			Special gift?  That's secret code
			for the checks, right?  Got 'em
			right here!  You're the man!
			You're the guy!  Golly, you must
			busy as a bee during a visit from
			the Queen so I'm gonna go...

	EXT. LAMPPOST OUTSIDE HEADQUARTERS--DAY

	An OBNOXIOUS LITTLE BOY skips up to the lamppost and then
	presses the button three times...

	INT. HEADQUARTERS--DAY

	67, 68, and 69 light up next to the 70 as the watching
	Penguin henchpeople let out an "OH" in cadence of each
	press.

					    DWARF ONE
			One more!

	INT. THE CONFERENCE ROOM--DAY

	Bruce looks away to give a disturbed glance to the
	strangely damaged Music Box and its impaled ballerina.

					    MAX
			The second phase of the operation
			begins tonight.  The hands-on
			part.  Don't hold back.....
			Goodbye.

	EXT. THE LAMPPOST--DAY

	An instantly annoying JOGGER, with a heart beat monitor
	and a T-shirt that reads GO FOR IT, rudely pushes past a
	Nun up to the lamppost, then putters around it, then
	starts jogging in place.

	INT. THE OFFICE--DAY

	Penguin squawks away, slamming down the phone.

					    PENGUIN
			Bye!

	The jogger presses the button.

	A 70-70 gets emblazoned on the scoreboard.

	The button, the lamppost, and the jogger erupt in a neat
	nasty explosion.

	The Circus Gang all high five each other as Penguin
	bustles hopefully to the window.  Seeing the flaming-
	seconds-too-late-aftermath, Penguin detonates into primal
	anger, then sobs.

					    PENGUIN
			Wha...oh unfair!  Unfair!  I
			missed it!...Oh, I can't
			believe...

					    HAPPY CLOWN
			Don't feel bad, Penguin, you can
			just set up another...

	Penguin slams the Happy Clown over a desk with his
	umbrella.

					    PENGUIN
			My name is not Penguin, it's
			Oswald Cobblepot!  And I like to
			feel bad!  Oh, I missed it!  I
			can't believe...

	INT. CONFERENCE ROOM--DAY

	Bruce stands.  Max shakes his hand.

					    BRUCE
			No hard feelings?

					    MAX
				  (a beat)
			No feelings at all.  Sorry about
			the interruptions.  I need my
			assistant to screen out...

					    BRUCE
			Relax, there she is now...

					    MAX
			Come again?

	A dazed Max turns to see a spunkier and slyer, more
	assertively dressed and coiffed, Selina Kyle sashay into
	the conference toom with her hand bandaged and her head
	up.

					    MAX
			Selina?....Selina....Selina.

					    SELINA
			That's my name, Maximillions,
			don't wear it out.

					    MAX
			Uh, Selina Kyle, this is Bruce
			Wayne.

					    BRUCE
			We've met.

					    SELINA
			We have?

					    BRUCE
			Oh.  Sorry.  I must be mistaking
			me for someone else.

					    SELINA
			You mean mistaking me for someone
			else?

					    BRUCE
			That's what I said.

					    SELINA
				  (amused)
			Yeah, but...

					    BRUCE
				  (amused, but let's
				   change the subject)
			What happened to your finger?

	Selina's babbling has a new, sultry confidence.

					    SELINA
			Let's just say the broken window
			out there didn't come from Little
			League practice, Mr. Wayne.  I
			came here to get a file, then bam,
			next thing I know, I'm making
			angels in the snow in the alley
			below.  Wow, rhymes.
				  (pause to look at
				   Max)
			Thing is, I have no memory of who
			of what pushed me through that
			window.  I mean, it's not complete
			amnesia.  I still remember Dan
			Schwartz putting 28 cockroaches in
			my thermos in fifth grade and I
			still remember getting my first
			French Kiss from the counselor at
			the Boy's camp across the swamp,
			but last night--It's a complete
			blur.
				  (slapping Max on back)
			Can't you just die?

					    MAX
			...what a hoot.

					    BRUCE
			It's hard to get thrown out of a
			window, fall--what is it--five
			stories, and keep your sense of
			humor.

					    SELINA
			You sound like you speak from
			experience.

					    BRUCE
			Always.  I hope to see you again.

					    SELINA
			Hope?  You can do better than
			that.

					    BRUCE
			You might be right.

	Chip comes in with a tray of coffee which he dumps onto
	himself at the sight of Selina.  Oblivious of the slap-
	stick, Bruce smiles-at-Selina his way out of the room.
	They watch Bruce close the door behind him.  Selina
	silently keeps her back turned to a gulping Max and Chip
	for a beat, before merrily wielding around.

					    SELINA
			Hey guys, now how about a real cup
			of joe?  Double expresso, isn't it?

	Selina bounds out of the room.  Max and Chip deflate.

					    MAX
			Find out if her memory is as
			unrefreshed as she says it is.
			Any little flashback sequences
			you know what to do.  Don't worry,
			this one doesn't have a beard.

	INT. OUTER OFFICE--DAY

	Selina angrily squeezes blood from her finger into a
	coffee maker.

					    SELINA
			Why did you kill me, Max?

	Selina looks up to the friendly cat logo clock and is
	transfixed.  She touches out with her bloody finger.

	EXT. OUTSIDE--DAY

	Bruce comes out of the store, allowing himself a slight
	smile.

					    BRUCE
			Se-lin-a Kyle.

	Bruce does a quick, playful slide in the snow, then look-
	ing off, halts both slide and smile.  In the distance:

	EXT. THE STREET CORNER--DAY

	Commissioner Gordon and some other policemen are scoping
	the scene of the Walk/Don't Walk explosion.  An ANALYST
	treads toward him, holding some wires.

	Bruce approaches the scene.  He gives a glance to the
	jogger's now frayed heartbeat monitor which is beeping
	out of control in a pool of slush.

					    GORDON
			My God, Bruce, you shouldn't have
			to see this.  Some freak set up a
			bomb in that Walk/Don't Walk
			button.  How they knew this guy
			would press it at the exact....

					    BRUCE
			This wasn't set up to kill someone
			specific.  It was set up for a
			good time.

	As Bruce speaks, he strides ahead of Gordon and the lat-
	ter scrambles to catch up, in the same syncopation they
	had when Bruce was Batman in Gotham Square.

					    GORDON
			I tell you, these Xmas crimes have
			no rhyme or reason.

					    BRUCE
			Maybe it's just a different kind
			of poetry.  Did you just say Xmas?

					    GORDON
			Sorry, bad habit.  Damn, Wayne,
			since when did you become such a
			super-sleuth?

	Bruce stops, realizing he's being a little too Batman.

					    BRUCE
			Sorry.  The idle rich can be a real
			pain.  Too many short stories,
			hidden word games--How many monkeys
			can you find in this picture--that
			kind of thing.

					    GORDON
			Don't apologize, I'll take all
			the help I can...

					    BRUCE
				  (looking up)
			Well, in the words of the city's
			new superstar, it's going to get a
			lot worse, before it gets better..

	Bruce is revealed to be looking up at a flaming Christmas
	wreath hanging on a wire near the scorched lamppost.

	INT. PENGUIN'S CAMPAIGN HEADQUARTERS--DAY

	With the lamppost flames in the background, Penguin wipes
	away a tear, sucks up his composure, and holds up the
	checkbook.  The collection of Circus Creeps and Colorful-
	ly dressed gang members orbit around him as he begins
	scribbling out checks and handing them out.  Excitement
	builds to a pep-rally pitch.

	OTHER GANGS enter from the back: six HERCULEAN
	Frankenstein-postured MEN WITH SPIKY TUFTS OF WHITE HAIR,
	three gruesome men in vibrant GOLFER uniforms, and a pair
	of otherwise handsome TWINS WITH THE SAME SET OF SCARS ON
	THEIR FACE.

					    PENGUIN
			Everyone!  I see some new faces
			out there!  Gather around!  I am
			hungry and I've been denied my
			little snack!  It just means I'm
			going to have to eat a big dinner,
			doesn't it?  My good people.... or
			whatever we are, this is our
			chance to do something meaningful
			with our lives!
				  (motioning out
				   windows)
			And their deaths...

	EXT. FROM A GOTHAM ROOFTOP--EARLY EVENING 

	A spooky pack of the Carnival denizens silently scramble
	down a street below.  Next, a Fire Engine with Freaked
	Up Clowns hanging off it sinisterly rambles in and out
	of view.  Finally, the Ratty Poodle trots an unsettling
	appearance.

	A chilly Chip, shaking his head, is revealed to be watch-
	ing the ghoulish sight.  Standing atop a rooftop, Chip
	turns his attentions to the windows of Selina's apart-
	ment.  Narrowing his eyes, he watches Selina waltz by,
	balancing a sewing machine on her head, and unbuttoning
	her blouse with the neon HELLO SIN flashing behind her.

	INT. INSIDE THE APARTMENT--EVENING

	The viewer gets an intense, elliptical array of close-
	ups of Selina's hands sewing together something black.
	A sewing needle is snapped in half, sharpened and then
	attached to an apparatus on Selina's finger that makes
	it pop in and out like a talon.

	EXT. THE ROOF--EVENING

	An increasingly alarmed and confused Chip squints to see
	Selina in bra and panties, carrying an air hammer and
	wearing industrial safety goggles.

					    CHIP
				  (bolting up)
			What is wrong with this female?

	INT. THE APARTMENT--EVENING

	A knock on the door.  Chip pushes it open and pokes in.
	The room is darkened, except for some deftly lit candles
	that avoid revealing the more outrageous elements of the
	place.  Chip can make out the sight of Selina erotically
	emblazoned over her couch, petting her cat, and wearing
	only an absurdly Isadora-Duncan-long, strategically
	draped scarf.

					    CHIP
			Uh, Selina...

					    SELINA
			Why hello, Mr. Chip, I can't hide
			my feelings about you any longer.

	Chip gulps forward, stepping onto the almost glowing,
	mystically unspray painted pink carpet.  And into.  The
	lumbering Tan giant begins to sink and flail inside
	what is a square of pink quicksand.  Selina rises from
	the couch, cloaked in darkness.

					    CHIP
			Selina, this is not too cool.  Help
			me!

					    SELINA
			Oh Chip, I am helping you.  Helping
			you realize your potential as a
			human being.  Unfortunately, you
			have none.

	Chip tries to lunge out of the quicksand.  A cat o' nine
	tails whip snaps out from the darkness, and lashes
	him back in.

					    SELINA
			You've probably figured out you're
			being killed.  Having gone through
			the process last night, I can
			relate.  It's not a whole hell of
			a lot of fun, is it?  Oh Chip, you
			really know how to make a gal feel
			happy.

	Chip makes his final quicksand bob, leaving behind a
	lone bubble.  Selina moves into the light, tugging
	into a black second skin, fixing a feline mask on
	her face.  Catwoman purrs.

	INT. MUSEUM CORRIDOR--NIGHT

	Penguin squawks.  He gleefully moves to a dark corridor
	window, accompanied by a clipboard clutching Punch and
	Juliet and the Twins with the matching set of scars on
	her face.

					    PENGUIN
			Punch and Juliet....note for my
			bio..."It began with a poodle..."

	Penguin is revealed to be looking out the window down to
	a SLEEK AND PRETTY LINE OF SHOPS, CAFES, AND BOUTIQUES.
	He pulls out a conductors baton, raps it on the wood a
	couple times, then begins waving it symphonically.

	EXT. THE GLITZY PROMENADE--NIGHT

	The outdoor Mallish promenade running the gauntlet
	between the pretty shops is filled with the stylish and
	upwardly mobile.  Incongruously into the mix comes the
	RATTY POODLE, carrying a little wrapped gift.  He trots
	into...

	INT. A BOUTIQUE--NIGHT

	A small Christmas party is going on.  A SLEAZY BIJAN-
	ESQUE EUROSNOB is proposing a toast before a massive,
	intricate pyramid of perfume bottles, labeled SUBMISSION.

					    EUROSNOB
			To my fabulous product, Submission,
			the smell of Gotham City...

					    EUROSNOBETTE
			Ooh, look at the little doggie.
			Isn't it...
				  (realizing its
				   uncuteness)
			...horrible.

	The poodle scoots between the Eurosnob's legs into the
	perfume pyramid.  He emerges back out with bottle in
	his mouth.  He gives off an icky whimper of satisfaction
	and runs out of the boutique.  The partiers slowly turn
	to the pyramid of perfume bottles which rumbles and
	AVALANCHES TO SHREDS.

	Laying neatly atop the wreckage is the Poodle's present.
	It starts to smoke.  The boutique crowd roars out of
	the store as the little present blows up.

	EXT. THE PROMENADE--NIGHT

	The familiar Fire Engine, with colored wheels and strange
	sounding horns, thunders up to the smoking boutique...

	Smiles of relief vanish as the Tawdry Fire-Clowns hop
	from the engine, blasting out their hoses which SHOOT OUT
	MORE FIRE INTO THE FLAMING STORE.

	An ambulance next screeches up.  Another SPOOKY SET OF
	CLOWNS in stethoscopes and Doctor mirror headgear pop
	forth with mallets.  They whomp the Eurosnob tycoon and
	his guests into stretchers.  The stretchers are piled
	back into the ambulance which proceeds to zoom across
	the way, right into an antique store.

	A line of the garishly dressed, cigar smoking, Steely
	Dames materializes to start a chain to pass the loot of
	the store.  The Bearded Lady, at the end of the chain,
	cheerfully smashes each object to the ground.

	The rest of the Gotham Night-lifers tremble into panic
	as the rest of Penguin's defrocked circus crew
	announce their presence.

	INT. MUSEUM CORRIDOR--NIGHT

	Penguin is now conducting his baton in a Wagnerian
	frenzy.  His grotesquely pleasant view of the city side-
	walks dressed in holiday style has now become pleasantly
	grotesque.

					    PENGUIN
			This campaign in going to be a
			landslide.  Our turn.

	Marching down the corridor, Penguin, by radar, stops
	before a row of lights imbedded in a wall.  He snaps
	his fingers.  Juliet pulls out a hair spray can,
	gives her own noggin a quick blast, then sprays forward,
	revealing the beams of light.  Penguin nods, then walks
	right through the lights.

	INT. MUSEUM ROOM--NIGHT

	A red light, along with a buzzing sound, flashes on the
	belts of TWO BLUSTERING GUARDS.  They reach for the guns,
	but Penguin fires a pistol six times in the air as he
	swings before the quivering duo with his entourage.

					    PENGUIN
			Greetings.  Finally something to
			tell your wives, huh?

					    GUARD ONE
			But we're not married.

					    PENGUIN
			It's okay, I'm probably going to
			kill you anyway.  However,
				  (gently PBS)
			first, we've come for the Shell
			of the North, found by explorers
			only eight years ago, it's
			enigmatic beauty is only exceeded
			by its gorgeous mystery and vice
			versa.  Its value is...

					    GUARD TWO
			Sir, the Shell of the North exhibit
			ended last week.  This is the Star
			of Darkness exhibit.

					    PENGUIN
			Oh...well, what the hell; we're
			here.

	The Criss-cross Scarfaced Twins rumble over to the
	delicately lit black diamond in the museum room and
	pull it off its perch.  A much more serious,
	rhythmically on and off, alarm warbles on.

	EXT. THE PROMENADE--NIGHT

	Terror is in full swing with pockets of Warped activity
	mingling everywhere.  A goggled ORGAN GRINDER plunges
	down on his Organ Box causing an explosion on an Insta-
	Teller machine.  His MONKEY hops up to snatch up
	billowing out cash.

	A SAP holding a radio boom box gets besieged by the five
	irons of the malevolent Golfers.  His radio box slides to
	the ground with a D.J. screaming out of it.

					    D.J. VOICE ON BOOMBOX
			Before we get into a half-hour
			commercial free, I gotta tell you
			I've just been handed something
			that says...get this, that Gotham
			City is being attacked by a
			combination of every gang in.....
			Aaagh!  Help!

	Wicked laughter and violence can be heard on the boombox
	as a CIRCUS CREEP in a moth-eaten old-style baseball
	pitcher uniform tosses a series of old-fashioned round
	black fuse-lit smoke bombs to the Tattooed Strongman who
	bats them exploding into various walls and windows,
	including the window of a suave venetianed blinded diner.

	PATRONS of the Diner thunder out of the door.  A COUPLE
	rushes directly to the viewer, then stops and smiles.

					    THE HUSBAND
			Oh, Batman, thank God!

	EXT. OTHER SIDE OF THE RESTAURANT--NIGHT

	Another set of patrons hightail it out of the Diner in
	a different direction.  They also stop to look at the
	camera.

					    WOMAN IN BIB
			Oh Batman, finally...

	 EXT. THE BACK OF THE RESTAURANT--NIGHT

	A TEAM OF ITALIAN COOKS burst out of the back of the
	restaurant.  They happily sigh before the viewer.

					    COOKS
			Pensavo che stavo muerto,
			gracie dio.....BATMAN!

	EXT. A WIDER VIEW FROM ABOVE--NIGHT

	reveals THE SIX GLOWERING, FRANKENSTEIN-SIZED SLEAZES
	DRESSED IN TAWDRY BUT MILDLY REALISTIC BATMAN OUTFITS.
	Their spiky tufts of white hair stick out the edges of
	their masks.  They chillingly stride forward, cracking
	their knuckles.

	The Patrons in all directions drop their smiles of relief
	and begin to back up.  The Batmans swarm forward.

	The Italian Cooks are revealed to be looking at a HAIRY
	WHITE BABOON in a Batman outfit.  They bail.

	INT. THE MUSEUM ROOM--NIGHT

	Penguin raises up his handgun.

					    PENGUIN
			You guys have been just great, more
			incompetent than I could have ever
			hoped for, but...

					    PUNCH
			You see, Mr Cobblepot wants to
			be Mayor and he's just doing these
			crimes to make the current mayor
			look bad.

					    JULIET
			Needless to say, if someone found
			out about the premeditated nature
			of these random crimes Dot.  Dot.
			Dot.

					    GUARD ONE
			Say no more, we won't tell anyone.

					    GUARD TWO
			You've got our vote!

					    PENGUIN
			Cute.  Really, it's for the
			best...

	Penguin fires the handgun.  It clicks on an empty
	chamber.  The Guards joyously pull out theirs.

					    GUARD ONE
			Ha!  That gun's only a
			six-shooter!

					    GUARD TWO
			And you already shot off your six!

					    PENGUIN
			When you're right, you're right.
			Here's Seven.

	Penguin blasts a laser from the tip of his umbrella that
	shish-kebabs through both guards, toppling them to the
	ground.

	EXT. THE DINER ON THE PROMENADE--NIGHT

	Just as the victims did before, one of the thrashing
	Batmans looks directly to the viewer.  He stops beating
	to lustily spout.

					    BATCREEP #1
			What are you waiting for, join in!

	His P.O.V. reveals that he is looking at the real Batman,
	who allows the BatCreep a second of white faced realiza-
	tion before ripping off his mask and savagely pounding
	him to the ground.

	The other Batcreeps reach into their bat belts and pull
	out surreally shaped knives.  Batman reaches into his
	bat-belt and pulls out his suave black Gameboy.  As if
	bored on a plane, Batman casually punches in a set of
	white dots and one red one.

	With a simultaneous howl, the Batcreeps charge at Batman
	from every direction.  Batman presses a button on his
	Gameboy that causes batarang flanks to rocket-sprout out
	of the oblong object.  Batman heaves the super-batarang.

	The super-batarang whizzes with wild concentration, pin-
	balling from Batcreep skull to Batcreep skull, slamming
	them all to the ground.  The batarang boomerang-wobbles
	back to Batman's hand.  The white dots on the screen
	blink off.  The victorious red dot beeps.

	Hearing squeals, Batman rack-focuses to take in the
	street full of beatings and squealings and smoke bombs.
	Batman glides forward in disbelief when his attention is
	captured by the sound of the alarm coming from a nearby
	building marked MUSEUM.

	EXT. THE ROOF--NIGHT

	The Scarfaced Adonises pound through a rooftop door and
	scramble across it.  Twin One proudly holding forth the
	black diamond with a victorious titter.

	Suddenly, a familiar cat o' nine tails whip slaps around
	Scarface's diamond toting hand and pulls him into a face
	to face with CATWOMAN--the costumed Selina speaks in her
	sultry, unlike-herself voice.  She plucks away the
	diamond.

					    CATWOMAN
			Oh, for me?....Tic Tac Toe!

	Catwoman slashes out with her homemade talons over the
	thug's criss-crossing scars.  Twin Two savagely kicks her
	in the stomach.  Catwoman pants and giggles.

					    CATWOMAN
			You know...I've never done this
			before.

	Twin Two rustles out a gun, but Catwoman Rockettes it

	EXT. FRONT OF THE MUSEUM--NIGHT

	Penguin proudly waddles from the museum, carrying a
	painting and shoving a cigarette into a cigarette holder
	in his mouth.  Batman swerves before him.  Penguin
	stretches out his gloved hand.

					    PENGUIN
			Batman!  I feel that I know you.
			Oswald Cobblepot.

					    BATMAN
			Pleasure's all yours.  Bargain
			hunting?

					    PENGUIN
			Oh, you mean, the Museum.  And the
			alarm.  And the general mood of
			complete chaos.  I guess "Penguin
			must have done it."

					    BATMAN
			Great speech today.  How you
			predicted all this was going to
			happen...Amazing.  You might get a
			date of it.

	Penguin lifts his flipper and pretends to be stung by the
	heat emanating from Batman.

					    PENGUIN
			Tough day at the office?...Quit
			while you're alive.  You're
			jealous, because your mask isn't
			real.  You hate me because I'm a
			freak.

					    BATMAN
			You're just another depressing,
			greedt egomaniac.  I don't hate
			you for being a freak, I hate you
			for being normal.  You're an
			insult to penguins.

					    PENGUIN
				  (laughing)
			Why can't I get mad at you?  It
			must be the pointy ears.  But
			seriously, I'm here as a concerned
			citizen.  Somebody tried to steal
			this painting.  When I made...
			heard those gunshots, I...

	TWO POLICE CARS, siren around a corner toward the museum.

					    BATMAN
			I'm sure your detailed "eyewitness
			report" will give the boys at the
			station a good laugh.

					    PENGUIN
				  (mimicking)
			"...will give the boys at the
			station.."  Look who's pretending
			to be normal now; A nice "just
			doing my duty, ma'am"
			crimefighter.  How sad, adorable,
			and funny, all at the same time.
			You'll never win that way, Batboy,
			but then, you know that.

	EXT. LEDGE OF A BUILDING--NIGHT

	Each sucking on a big bamboo pole, Punch and Juliet
	balance on the ledge of a nearby building.  They blow
	down hard on the passing police cars.

	EXT. THE POLICE CARS--NIGHT

	A small orange transistor goes plinking into each of the
	two car's windshields.

	EXT. THE MUSEUM--NIGHT

	Penguin pulls out a similar orange transistor device,
	drops the painting, and spews out the cigarette holder.

					    BATMAN
			Is that all you have to say for
			yourself?

					    PENGUIN
			There's one other thing...
				  (into transistor)
			"Laser Bunny."

	His device starts to whine.

	EXT. THE POLICE CARS--NIGHT

	At the sound of the two words, the two transistors let
	off a bizarre, piercingly corresponding siren sound.

	Suddenly, the PIGEONS OF GOTHAM CITY, and all other kinds
	of urban birds, GO INSANE.  They kamikaze down toward the
	sirens, thundering themselves against the windshields of
	the cars, causing them to skid and convulse into trash-
	cans and brownstones.

	EXT. THE MUSEUM STEPS--NIGHT

	Batman spins from the destruction, back to Penguin, who
	is opening his umbrella.

					    PENGUIN
			Love to stay and gab, but I gotta
			fly...

	The steel rods of Penguin's umbrella begin to spin out of
	control, shredding off the black cloth and turning into a
	mini-helicopter that lifts Penguin off the ground.
	Batman scuffles below him, maneuvering out his
	bat-a-rang.

					    PENGUIN
			Well, don't just stand there...Oh
			yeah, you're the one without
			superpowers...

	Batman prepares to hurl the batarang when from out of a
	manhole beneath him, the Lurid Snake Charmer Woman las-
	soes a python around Batman's ankle and yanks him.
	Batman's multi-cool batarang clacks to the ground.
	Before Batman can notice, the Ratty Poodle teeths it up
	and scampers away.  Batman kicks the Lurid woman and her
	snake back into the manhole.  Penguin has sputtered out
	of range.

	EXT. SKY--NIGHT

	Penguin swirls through the air with a mad cackle.  He
	looks down to a rooftop below him to see Catwoman wallop
	the remaining Twin.

					    PENGUIN
			And what do we have here?  A new
			girl in town.

	Penguin playfully makes a cat yelping noise.

	EXT. ROOFTOP--NIGHT

	Catwoman cackles up to the choppering away Penguin in
	admiration as Twin Two crumples to the ground.  She flips
	the diamond over her head, pauses for a breath of sanity,
	and then does a giddy leap onto the next building's
	drainpipe.

	EXT. THE STREET BELOW DRAINPIPE--NIGHT

	A relatively normal looking MUGGER is pinning a FEMALE
	VICTIM to the side of a building and rummaging into her
	purse.

					    MUGGER
			That's it, pretty, young thing,
			nice and easy...

					    FEMALE VICTIM
			Please don't hurt me, I'll do
			anything...

	Catwoman launches down, perfectly wrapping her legs
	around the mugger's neck.  She claps her hands together
	with the mugger's head in the middle.  She sinks to a
	standing position on the sidewalk as his moaning body
	sags downward.

					    CATWOMAN
			I just love a big strong man who's
			not afraid to show it, with
			someone half his size.

					    FEMALE VICTIM
			Thank you, thank you, I was so
			scared...

					    CATWOMAN
			Oh, shut up!

	Catwoman slams the Female Victim back against the
	building.

					    CATWOMAN
			You make it so easy, don't you,
			pretty pathetic young thing?
			Always waiting for some Batman to
			save you...HA!

	EXT. PROMENADE BEFORE THE MUSEUM--NIGHT

	Commissioner Gordon hatches out of one of the crumpled,
	bird-corpse-covered police cars.  Batman removes one of
	the transistor devices from the windshield.

					    GORDON
			Birds!  I'm completely outmanned
			to begin with and now the creeps
			got Mother Nature on the
			payroll...

					    BATMAN
			It was Penguin.  Behind this.  All
			of this.

					    GORDON
			You mean, Mr. Cobblepot?  Now why
			go blaming him?  I mean, where is
			he?  Do you have any...

					    BATMAN
			Stop.  It's not the time...

	Batman closes up the transistor in his hand and moves off
	into the smoking chaos of Gotham's Rodeo Drive.  Gordon
	gives him a thoughtful glance before the Mugger and his
	Female Victim clamor up.

					    MUGGER
			She had claws!

					    FEMALE VICTIM
			That's what I'm saying!  She was a
			Catwoman!

	EXT. MAX'S DEPARTMENT STORE--NIGHT

	Catwoman saunters up to the door of a closed Shreck's
	department store.  She makes a thoughtful pause before
	the Shreck Kitten logo on the glass, then punctures it
	with her talons.

	EXT. THE THICK OF THE SMOKING PROMENADE--NIGHT

	Batman sheriff-struts into the dark mist.  The Raggedy
	Sword Swallower leaps out at him.  Batman gives him a
	strategic elbow to the ribs and pulls a sword from his
	mouth.  A MANIAC WITH AN ABSURD BOMB STRAPPED TO HIS
	CHEST pops out next.

					    MANIAC BOMBER
			Stop or I'll blow up this
			entire...

	Before he can finish his sentence, Batman impolitely
	lashes out with the sword and, sparks flying, shears the
	bomb from the bomber's chest.  Batman catches the bomb,
	hooks it to his bat-belt, then slams the Maniac Bomber to
	the ground with the back of the sword.  Flinging away the
	sword, Batman rumbles further.

	INT. THE DEPARTMENT STORE--NIGHT

	Catwoman dashes down an aisle, outstretching her arms to
	shred the priceless blouses of a gauntlet of pouting
	mannequins.

					    CATWOMAN
			Born to shop.

	With her whip, Catwoman latches up to an overhead Mobile
	of Christmas decorations and Art Deco snowflakes.  With a
	yank, she causes them to grandiosely hail upon the
	ground.

	At the sound of shattering, an ELITELY UNIFORMED PAIR OF
	SECURITY GUARDS rev up into a gently scrambling through
	the strategically darkened store.  They round a corner to
	see Catwoman merrily bouncing upon a trampoline.

	From Catwoman's rising and falling POV, the Security Men
	look up with every adjective of confusion and excitement.

					    SECURITY ONE
			Who is she?  What is she?

					    SECURITY TWO
			I don't know whether to shoot or
			fall in love.

					    CATWOMAN
			Try both.

	The Guards draw up their guns.  Catwoman spins out of
	orbit and swooshes down upon their looking up faces,
	thrashing them to the ground.  She fluidly cartwheels to
	a wall tile, that she bashes open, revealing a propane
	tank.  She talons off a hose, letting gas hiss into the
	air.

					    SECURITY TWO
			Please!  We're innocent!  Our take
			home is less than 300 a week..

					    CATWOMAN
			You're not innocent, you're alive.
			And overpaid.

	She hugs out for an armful of car care aerosols and then
	skippingly stashes them into a line of microwave ovens.
	Flouncing backward, she beeps them into starting.

	EXT. ANOTHER PLACE IN THE SMOKING PROMENADE--NIGHT

	The Thug-Acrobat from the press conference, and another
	LIKE CAPED GANG MEMBER hold out their checks in the deep
	discussion.

					    THUG-ACROBAT
			I scored a bonus for the press
			conference-Baby thing.

					    LIKE-CAPED GANGSTER
			You got start saving your
			receipts, man.

	Emerging from the smoke behind them, Batman sledgehammers
	down the Caped Gangster then latches out to the running
	away cape of the Thug Acrobat.  He violently swings the
	Acrobat off the ground into a harsh lamppost-wraparound
	collision.  Batman catches the Acrobats floating off
	check, before looking up to see the Tattooed Strongman
	growl out of the smoke before him.

					    TATTOOED STRONGMAN
			Oh, no big bad car tonight.  No
			spiky things to shoot at my head.
				  (pounding his Batman-
				   tattooed chest)
			Before I kill you, I let you hit
			me.  Hit me.  Come on, hit as hard
			as you can.  I need a good laugh.

	Batman quickly swings into the Strongman's stomach.  The
	Tattooed leviathan roars with laughter.

					    TATTOOED STRONGMAN
			You call that a...

	The Tattooed Strongman stops laughing when he looks down
	and sees that Batman has attached the Maniac's bomb to
	the Not-so-Strongman's leopard skin.  The Tattooed
	Strongman squeals past Batman right into an open manhole.
	An explosion geysers out of it.

	Batman sighs out of the smoke at the end of the Promenade
	into...

	EXT. GOTHAM PLAZA--NIGHT

	Batman plods a couple steps through the relatively placid
	Plaza.  He stops dead at the sight of Catwoman coming
	toward him from the mouth of Shreck's department store,
	startling back flip by startling back flip.  She does a
	final somersauly and lands on her feet, ten yards away.

					    CATWOMAN
				  (dry enunciation)
			Meow.

	The department store behind her blows up with a glowing
	roar.  Batman is knocked to his knees.  With naked
	excitement, he gapes over to see Catwoman scale the
	ridges of a Plaza building.  Batman scans over to a fire
	escape on the other side of the building and bolts.

	EXT. BUILDING ROOFTOP--MINUTES LATER--NIGHT

	Batman too-heatedly storms up the last of the fire escape
	and strides the rooftop like an autograph hound.  He
	passes Catwoman, who is in a Cheshire curl atop a rooftop
	power shack.  When she speaks, Batman turns to see her
	slink down.

					    CATWOMAN
			Where's the fire, cowboy?  Besides
			Max Shreck's department store.

					    BATMAN
			I...

	Catwoman launches a brutal kick right into his face.
	Batman reverberates back a couple steps.

					    CATWOMAN
			Speak up.  I hate a man who's...

	With savage calm, Batman forcefully swats Catwoman into
	a whimpering ball.

					    CATWOMAN
			How could you?  I'm a woman...

					    BATMAN
			I'm sorr...

	Catwoman spins and slams batman off the ledge.  She
	lashes out her whip, and soils it around one of Batman's
	flapping arms.  With both hands, Catwoman jerks up
	Batman.  She ties her and of the whip to a weather vane.

					    CATWOMAN
			As I was saying, I'm a woman...and
			can't be taken for granted.  You
			are no longer the Night.  You're
			but a puny eclipse, a pitiful
			reminder of what's supposedly
			"Right."  But in a world of Wrong
			and Hate. "Irrelevant" is your
			most notable trait...Are you
			paying attention, you Batman you?

					    BATMAN
			Hanging on every word.

					    CATWOMAN
			A sense of humor.  Surprise
			tactic.  Did you know we live in a
			society that tells its boys to
			conquer worlds, but tells its girls
			not to get their dresses dirty.
			A man dressed as a bat can be
			anything, but a woman dressed as
			anything but a woman is wicked.
			I'm just living down to my
			expectations.

	She only-half-teasingly runs her talons over the out-
	stretched ship lifeline.  Batman, with his unwhipwrapped
	arm, reaches into his bat belt and takes out a mini-test
	tube of the familiar pleasant blue fluid, guiding it
	toward a tube of the familiar nasty red fluid.

					    BATMAN
			People hurt each other, they lie
			to each other, they're more
			interested in what I drive, than
			what I stand for.  I need their
			intelligence, they give me their
			lunch boxes.

					    CATWOMAN
				  (pulling back)
			Finally, a real conversation and
			it's not even Valentine's Day.
			But tell me stud, if you hate
			society so much, why do you
			dedicate your life into defending
			the scum who run it.  I'm not here
			to protect society.  I'm here to
			bring it all down.  Life's a
			bitch, so now am I.

	The bat belt mixture turns purple.  Batman counts off to
	five as Catwoman swings back to cut the whip.  Batman
	lobs up the bubbling mini-test tube.  It explodes into
	Catwoman's forearm.  She animalistically shrieks in an
	epilepsy that sends her soaring off down to the next
	ledge, barely.

	Batman tarzans himself down beside her.  Catwoman's
	talons frantically claw and scratch, trying to gain
	balance.  Batman darkly just watches.

	She scrapes off.  Batman does a last minute slam of his
	foot onto one of her claws to hold her in the air.

					    CATWOMAN
			My hero.  Where were you the last
			time I died?  You don't get it, I
			don't want to be saved.  I want to
			be changed.  Don't worry I still
			have eight left.

	Catwoman rips out from Batman and drops from the
	building.  Batman watches in shock as her body hurls
	toward the ground.  At the last possible moment, from out
	of nowhere, a truck of Kitty litter bags passes beneath
	Catwoman cozily lands upon them.

	INT. SELINA'S APT.--LATER--NIGHT

	Selina, still in her Catwoman outfit, opens her front
	door and tosses her keys on the coffee table as if she
	had just punched out a ho hum 9 to 5.  Oblivious to her
	new decor and self, she does a little leap over her
	quicksand carpet and presses a talon down on her answer-
	ing machine.

					    LAME BOYFRIEND'S VOICE
			Selina, I'm going to give you
			another chance to be the woman I
			just know you can be.  I
			thought...

	Selina violently cackles then cuts off completely.  She
	shish-kebabs down her talons into the machine and then
	flings it off into her kitchenette.

	The machine hits her faucet.  The faucet comes on with a
	clear, perfect stream of water.  Selina pleasantly drifts
	to the faucet and rolls up her sleeve, revealing the
	Batman-induced burn mark.  She holds it under the water
	and purrs in pleasure and pain.

	INT. THE BAT CAVE--LATER--NIGHT

	Batman opens a glass case that is to hold his bat suit.
	He tears off a glove, revealing a bare and bruised hand.
	He puts the glove in the case, then pauses with a contem-
	plative sigh.

					    BATMAN
			Meow.

	EXT. GOTHAM PLAZA--DAY

	Penguin silently stands upon the stage in the middle of
	the square, his head bowed with quiet dignity.  A MASSIVE
	CROWD, also bows their heads in silence.

					    PENGUIN
			Amen.

					    THE CROWD
			Amen.

	EXT. GOTHAM PLAZA--DAY

	Bruce Wayne stands in the middle of the bursting-with-
	righteousness crowd and shakes his head.  He helplessly
	puakes at Penguin's words.

					    PENGUIN
			I'm afraid we're going to need
			more than prayers to stop the
			disease devouring Gotham City;
			a disease that turns Eagle Scouts
			into Psychotic Clowns and happy
			homemakers into Catwomen.  I
			chattered last night with my noble
			friend Batman, and Batman said to
			me, "Oswald, I'm losing it, man.
			I'm peeing in me tights.  I need
			help."
				  (Mayoral pause)
			I said, "Batman, I'm here."

	The crowd applauds.  Bruce is ready to explode.  He holds
	out the check he retrieved the night before and irritably
	balls it up.

					    PENGUIN
			The city needs a new moral
			authority.  Someone who can still
			remember what terrible thoughts
			go through a bitter and sick
			outcast's mind.  If I can cure
			myself, I can cure the city.  Love
			is the drug.  Face it, we need a
			new leader!  A new mayor!  A new
			election!  The new me!

	The crowd goes crazy as sheets drop from walls and fences
	revealing vivid OSWALD COBBLEPOT FOR MAYOR posters.

					    THE CROWD
			Oswald!  Oswald!  Oswald!

	Faces nauseously poking out of a limousine window, the
	Mayor and his staff look to the pandemonium of the crowd.

					    MAYOR
			Get me out of here, before I kill
			somebody, like myself.

	INT. THE SCHRECK CONFERENCE ROOM--DAY

	From his literally Ivory Tower, Max snickers down to the
	fleeing limousine.  He then looks down to one of his
	burnt, cracked Art Deco snowflakes in his hand and melts
	his smile back into stone.

	Suddenly, a maliciously upbeat Selina gooses him from
	behind and puts a cup of coffee in his flustered hand.

					    SELINA
			Morning, Max!  Bummer about the
			store, last night.

					    MAX
			Yes, uh...

	Max takes a sip of coffee and gags.  He spits a live
	cockroach from his mouth.  It crawls over the desk.

					    SELINA
			My, those silly exterminators
			promised me the coffee machine was
			okey-dokey.

					    MAX
			What are you trying...

					    SELINA
			I'm really sorry.  Hey, have you
			seen Chip?  He's usually so
			prompt.  We were to have buttered
			English muffins and hot chocolate
			together this fine winter's day.

					    MAX
			Uh, well, I hope...

					    SELINA
			...nothing happened to him.  I
			second that emotion.
				  (sashaying off)
			Oh, I'm taking the rest of the
			afternoon off.  Do you mind?
			Really?  You are the best.

	The door slams shut.  A completely bewildered Max looks
	down to his coffee and quickly throws it from himself.

	INT. OUTER OFFICE--DAY

	Selina puts up a post-it that reads "Defy Authority" on
	her computer terminal, along with subversively aggressive
	others like "Expose the Horror" and "No Mercy."  A fly
	buzzes into the room.  Selina bats it with feline concen-
	tration as she reaches out to a carton of skim milk.

	EXT. THE STAGE--DAY

	Penguin guides the luminous and lovely Ice Princess
	toward the microphone.

	She is wearing her tiara, booties and snow bunny fur over
	an absurd bathing suit.

					    PENGUIN
			As you know, tonight at seven
			o'clock sharp is the Relighting
			of the Christmas Tree and Gotham
			City's own Ice Princess is going
			to press the button!

					    ICE PRINCESS
			Gotham I've got goosebumps and not
			just because I'm in my tangerine
			Norma Kamali one-piece.  I
			wouldn't miss this to save my own
			life!

					    PENGUIN
			You got that right.  Now, don't
			forget.  That's seven o'clock.
			This is going to be mroe than the
			regular flicking on of some bulbs.
			It will be a renewal for the city
			that all must pay witness to!
			The Mayor promised in the papers
			that nothing bad would happen.  I
			pray he won't let us down...

	Penguin devilishly grins when saying this, running his
	hands through the Ice Princess's hair.

	Bruce looks to the tree, the Princess, and the petting
	Penguin.

					    BRUCE
			Subtlety will get you everywhere,
			"Mr. Cobblepot."

	Bruce meanders out of the Plaza crowd and into the con-
	necting promenade of shops that were so brutally bombarded
	the night before.  Amid the still-smoking wreckage, a
	couple stores, spread out from each other, are mystically
	untouched and glistening.

	These gloriously immune shops all have a Shreck logo on
	them.  Bruce's brain whirs.  He uncrumples the check.

	INT. PENGUIN CAMPAIGN HEADQUARTERS--LOWER LEVEL--DAY

	A gung-ho bevy of FRESH FACE YOUNG CONSERVATIVES spirit
	about a wholesomely cluttered and buzzing campaign
	headquarters level, enthusiastically handling phones,
	flyers, and faxes.  Penguin beams by a group of Aryan
	brethren.

					    SOUTHERN BELLETTE WORKER
			Oh Mr. Cobblepot, you're just the
			most wonderful role model a young
			person can have.

					    PENGUIN
				  (sexual hunger)
			And you're the best young people
			a role model could have...

	Penguin squawks off and up a circular staircase in the
	middle of the headquarters floor, babbling to himself in
	awe.

					    PENGUIN
			Who would have thought?  I say
			something funny, they laugh.  I
			say something touching, they cry.
			I say something French--"Je suis
			une pamplamousse"--they say tres
			bien.

	In one fluid motion, Penguin begins his soliloquy amid
	the adorably respectable buzz of the clean but campaig-
	ners and then trudging upward, almost oblivious to the
	amid the ugly growling of...

	INT. UPPER LEVEL OF THE CAMPAIGN HEADQUARTERS--DAY

	where the evil Fordon Liddy Yang to the goody-goody
	bottom floor John Dean Yin eerily presents itself.  The
	Circus Creepazoids bandage up their wounds and check
	their wacko artillery.  The Walk/Don't Walk button Score-
	board reads on one side 6,341.  The number to match on the
	other side is 17,000.

	A line of Circus Thugs wearing NERDISH GLASSES, scruti-
	nize a wallful of photographs of the Batmobile and
	contrast them with a series of Penguin's Da Vinciesque
	drawings.

					    PENGUIN
			I never knew superiority could be
			so fun, and so easy...heck, I
			might even get laid tonight if...

	Penguin cuts off to pick up a ringing red hotline phone.

					    PENGUIN
			Max!  Did I do it or did I do it?

	INT. SHRECK CONFERENCE ROOM

	In his chair, Max is holding a flaming lighter beneath
	his abused music box.  The damaged snowflake also rests
	on the table.

					    MAX
			You did it.  Unfortunately, you
			did it to my flagship store.  I
			insisted that you stay away from
			my...

	INT. CAMPAIGN HEADQUARTERS--DAY

	Penguin thoughtfully answers.

					    PENGUIN
			Max, not our foul.  It was that
			Catbroad.  I gotta tell you
			though, she's got potential.

	The power suddenly goes out in the headquarters.  The
	overcast daylight is all that seeps in.  Penguin gives
	his office a challenged grin.  He sees the outline of
	Catwoman felinely pacing around, scaring the living hell
	out of his birds.

	INT. SHRECK CONFERENCE ROOM--DAY

	Max slightly raises his voice, ripping his logo off the
	wall.

					    MAX
			Forgive me if I am not as aroused
			by someone who dresses up like my
			logo and trashes my assets.

	INT. CAMPAIGN HEADQUARTERS--DAY

	Penguin absently concurs, his mind on the girl.

					    PENGUIN
			Yeah-yeah, Mr. Shreck.  Consider
			her spayed.  Bye.

	Penguin hangs up.  He happily wobbles toward his office.
	One of his henchmen is walloped out of his office by
	Catwoman.  Penguin steps over him, love and desire in his
	eyes.  He Cat-growls....

					    PENGUIN
			I'm glad you came.  We have so
			much in common.  Death.
			Destruction.  Courage to make
			a Fashion statement.  Overall
			sexual intensity.

					    CATWOMAN
			Batman.  My friend, we have
			Batman in common.  Our connection
			is the thorn in both our sides.
			As long as that smug superhero
			is around, Gotham City will have
			some lame sense of security.
			He's like a God, who works for a
			living.

	Penguin looks off to the pictures of the Batmobile.

					    PENGUIN
			Honey, this one's on me.  The Bat
			is in a Will-Stop-At-Nothing-To-
			Bring-Me-To-Justice mode.  Figured
			I'd kill him.

					    CATWOMAN
			Making a martyr out of Batman is
			a lot less enjoyable than turning
			him into what he despises most.
			Namely, us.

					    PENGUIN
				  (Hmmmmm)
			Batman, framed as a criminal...

	Punch and Juliet purposefully stride in.  They futz with
	Penguin's tuxedo as they speak.

					    PUNCH
			We couldn't help overhearing....
			Catwoman, a pleasure.  Punch...

					    JULIET
			Juliet.  Personally, we have
			nothing against Batman--Face it,
			the guy's still got it--but
			business is business.  The only
			thing the Mayor has got going for
			him right now is his allegiance
			to Batman.

					    PUNCH
			You make a successful mockery of
			the whole Batman thing and you
			leave the Mayor with nothing.
			Instant Recall election.  City is
			yours.

					    PENGUIN
				  (blasting some
				   breath spray)
			I think we're all in agreement.
			Catwoman and I just have to...bang
			out the details.

					    JULIET
			We further recommend...

					    PENGUIN
			Beat it.

	Punch and Juliet whisk out the door.  Penguin spookily
	rides his umbrella up Catwoman's leg.

					    PENGUIN
			This is the big time, baby.  Are
			you for real?  For all I know,
			you're just some screwed-up
			sorority chick with a PMS degree,
			who wants to get back at her Daddy
			for not giving her a sweet sixteen
			pony...What do you say about a
			little interspecies action.
			I'll...

	Catwoman gulps in nervousness then shoots her claw into
	one of the bird cages and rips out a small canary and
	shoves it into her mouth.  Penguin frantically withdraws
	the molesting umbrella.

					    PENGUIN
			Stop it!  Leave Gertie alone!  I
			was just--whaddya call it--
			"flirting."  It was my first
			time...geez.

	Catwoman cooly spits out the canary, allowing it to fly
	around the room.  Penguin warily sits behind his white
	desk.  Catwoman comfortably slithers atop it.

					    PENGUIN
			Give a guy...You're seeing someone
			else?

					    CATWOMAN
			Oswald.  It could never work
			between us.  Literally...Our plan
			for Batman?

					    PENGUIN
			...this morning...in my speech, I
			made a vaguely humongous deal
			about the relighting of the
			Christmas tree.  Batman likes to
			play offense.  He'll come to check
			it out.

					    CATWOMAN
				  (post-purr)
			I'll be the cat that kills
			curiosity.

	EXT. THE PROMENADE OF NOW-NOT-SO-GLITZY SHOPS--DAY

	NAIVELY GIDDY CHILDREN and GUARDEDLY AMUSED PARENTS
	boarded-up-windowshop down the damaged but not defeated
	outdoor mallish line of shops.  Father, Mother, and Boy--
	A FAMILY HIGHLY REMINISCENT OF YOUNG BRUCE WAYNE AND HIS
	DOOMED PARENTS glow to a "magically" intact Schreck toy
	store window.

	Bruce Wayne sidles up beside them and sadly contemplates
	the cozy menage.  He turns and looks, not through the
	window, but at it, at the reflection of himself.

	In the corner of the window reflection is a reflection of
	Selina Kyle standing across the street.  Her back turned,
	she is also looking toward a store window.  Noticing her,
	Bruce turns from his window.

	EXT. THE STORE ACROSS THE STREET--DAY

	Selina grimly stares at her reflection.

					    SELINA
			What are you doing?

	Selina pushes her Catwoman mask deep into her purse.  A
	gliding over Bruce touches her shoulder, startling her.

					    BRUCE
			Selina.  Hello.  I didn't mean
			to...

					    SELINA
				  (Catwoman voice)
			Hello...
				  (coughing, normal)
			Hi, Bruce Wayne.  Hi.

					    BRUCE
			It's great to see you in real
			life, outside the Almighty
			conference room.  I can't believe
			Ebeneezer Shreck let you out.  He
			must have got a fax from the
			Ghost of Christmas Future...

					    SELINA
			Something like that.  So what are
			you doing out in the jungle?  I
			thought you quasi-reclusive
			jillionaire playboy types have
			robots who come out do your
			yuletide soap-on-a-rope gift
			buying.

					    BRUCE
			It's their day off.  That was a
			hell of a sentence.  Se-li-na
			Kyle.  There's something about
			you...I'd really like us to get
			to know each other.
				  (looking off)
			Well, kind of.

	Bruce is looking to a newsstand.  They both pause to
	absorb the screaming tabloid headlines "BATMAN WIPES OUT
	ON CRIMEWAVE"..."It's A CAT-astrophe"...."Me-ow-uch!"

					    SELINA
			The news nowadays....It seems to
			be coming from another planet,
			another life.

					    BRUCE
			I have a hard time believing it
			myself, sometimes.
				  (peeved)
			"Batman wipes out on Crimewave"?
			I mean, that's a bit of an
			exaggeration...

					    SELINA
				  (squinting and
				   reading)
			Catwoman is thought to weigh 160
			pounds.  Where do these hacks get
			their information?  I mean, she'd
			have to be a lot better shape
			than...

	Bruce and Selina gointo half-chuckles as they shuffle
	together..

	EXT. GOTHAM PLAZA--DAY

	POLICEMEN are cordoning off the Plaza in preparation of
	the night's festivities.  The Plaza is filled with
	FESTIVITY WORKERS, dressed as ELVES, who scurry about
	cleaning up.  A sign reminds THE RELIGHTING OF THE TREE
	AT SEVEN.

					    SELINA
			You're not going to this thing
			tonight, are you?  "The Relighting
			of the Tree."

					    BRUCE
			I wouldn't be caught dead here.
			I have a feeling it's going to
			be very.....rowdy.

					    SELINA
			Rowdy?.....It's going to be Hell,
			Bruce, and Chaos and Armageddon
			and...Uh, at least that's what I
			think.

					    BRUCE
			Those are big words.  I guess
			we'll just have to watch it on
			T.V.

					    SELINA
			I'm sorry I feel so strongly.  And
			wickedly.  I didn't always.

					    BRUCE
			How charming.  You got yourself
			a little dark side.

	A can't-help-but-be-condescending Bruce pats her on the
	head as they pass the stage.  The Ice Princess, poking on
	a studious pair of glasses, is being re-briefed on the
	difficult task of pressing the large red button whose
	wires lead to the tree.  The viewer is revealed that
	many of the elves are Penguin disciples like the Sword
	Swallower and the Raggedy waif.

	EXT. PARK PATH--DAY

	Bruce and Selina stroll down a deserted and lightly
	snowbound park path, between two large snowmen.  Selina
	broadly inhales.

					    SELINA
			Is it just me today, or do you
			feel...sane?

					    BRUCE
			It's just you.
				  (smiling)
			It's strange, but when I'm with
			you I forget that the world is...

	Suddenly, from out of the snowmen, TWO WILD-EYED HOODLUMS
	in little oxygen masks smash forth, like bad butterflies
	form a nice white, corn-cob-pipe cocoon.  They tear off
	their masks and pull out knives.

					    BRUCE
			...like this.

	Bruce heroically heaves forth, giving Selina a small,
	"Back Miladu, this is man's work" push.  Selina then
	strides before him, giving a "Let me handle this, you
	lily white cutie" look.  Bruce tries to Dudley-Do Right
	forward again, when...

					    SNOWMAN HOODLUM ONE
			It's dangerous to walk in the park
			after 11 a.m.?  Don't you..

	With simultaneous brutal swiftness, Bruce sledgehammers
	Hoodlum One to the ground as Selina gives Snowman Hoodlum
	Two a terrifying backhand, sending him into the snow.

	Bruce lifts up Selina's bloody knuckles.  He licks them.
	She likes it.  They melt toward a traditionally classic
	screen kiss when Bruce sneezes in her face.

					    BRUCE
			I'm sorry.  I'm allergic to cats.

					    SELINA
			What do you...

	Selina is in shock.  How could he possibly know...A
	smiling Bruce motions over his shoulder to where the
	nasty Tomcat from her resurrection stands.  It growls off.

	Bruce and a brightening Selina re-melt into a soaring
	kiss as the viewer's viewpoint drifts back to reveal the
	muggers' crumpled bodies twitching in the snow beside
	them.

	INT. DEN IN WAYNE MANOR--DUSK

	Bruce and Selina continue their passionate kissing,
	wrestling on a couch in Bruce's den, fully-clothed,
	before a roaring fireplace.  A sparking-off ember causes
	them to break apart.

					    SELINA
			To think, I was taught never to
			get involved with a man with two
			first names.

					    BRUCE
			you were taught well.  My last
			relationship...forget it.

					    SELINA
			Ah, too late, you started it.
			What went wrong?  Keep things from
			her?

					    BRUCE
			No, told her everything.

					    SELINA
			Ouch.  Well then, let's keep
			things strictly superficial.

					    BRUCE
			Not yet.  First I get a question.
			Back in the park, where did you
			learn...

					    SELINA
			Didn't.  At least I thought I
			didn't.  I won some karate
			lessons.  Radio thing.  I'd been
			calling for Grateful Dead tix...
			anyway, I take the course.  I was
			a most serious failure.  The
			instructor kept chanting "Your
			mind isn't clear, your mind
			isn't..."
				  (disturbingly)
			It is now...

	Bruce massages a tickled Selina under her shirt.

					    BRUCE
			Why is your body so alive?

					    SELINA
				  ("You don't wanna
				   know")
			Uh...Uh-robics.  I was very
			athletic as a girl.  It's cute
			thing for a girl--to be athletic,
			aggressive....but you grow older,
			everyone tells you...

					    BRUCE
			Everyone is wrong.  Important
			thing to remember.

	Selina felinely curls out of an intense kiss to lie on
	the couch.  Bruce's hand brushes by her burnt forearm.

					    SELINA
			I'm just so tired.  I had
			incredibly rough night last night.

					    BRUCE
			This city takes a lot out of you.
			I was running around quite a bit
			myself.

	As Bruce lies back, Selina pats his head, her turn to
	be condescending.

					    SELINA
			How charming.  More of that rugged
			Last Minute Christmas shopping?

					    BRUCE
			Sure.

	They both close their eyes.

	INT. A TRAILER IN GOTHAM SQUARE--DUSK

	The sweet, lovely Ice Princess, in a vast white Good
	Witch dress, is storming around her dressing room trailer,
	barking into a cordless phone and fiddling with her hair
	in the mirror.

					    ICE PRINCESS
			Yeah, yeah, that's all very
			uninteresting.  Bottom line, they
			want this fair maiden back next
			year, they are going to have to
			pay.  Big time.  I don't want to
			be pressing a sucky red button all
			my life.

	Ice Princess slams down her antenna and gives up a sur-
	prised smile to Penguin.

					    ICE PRINCESS
			Why Mr. Cobblepot, I didn't hear
			you come in.....

					    PENGUIN
				  (malevolently)
			Why thank you.  It's one of my
			strong points.  Heads up.

	Penguin heaves the Super-bat-a-rang the Ratty Poodle
	retrieved for a point blank whoosh into the Ice Princess's
	forehead, thwacking her into her makeup table.  The
	batarang boomerangs wildly back causing Penguin to hit
	the deck.  It reverberates off the wall a couple times
	before dropping to the shag.  A lone white dot blinks off.

	EXT. HER TRAILER--DUSK

	Penguin drags the Ice Princess out of the trailer.  Punch
	and Juliet finish spraypainting to help him yank out the
	vast-dressed damsel.

					    PENGUIN
			How could the Caped Crusader do
			such a thing?  One, two, three,
			pull!  One, two..

	Revealed upon the trailer, the words "LET THE ONE WITHOUT
	SIN CAST THE FIRST STONE" are spray-scrawled next to a
	spooky, dripping drawing of a bat with a death skull.

	INT. WAYNE MANOR DEN--EARLY EVENING

	Lit only by the fire now, Bruce wakes with a start, still
	entangled with a napping Selina.  Seeing a clock showing
	6:30, he gracefully winds out of Selina's arms as not to
	disturb her serene slumber, then bolts off.

	INT. WAYNE MANOR STAIRCASE--EARLY EVENING

	Bruce rumbles down a set of stairs.  Alfred saunters by
	at the bottom of the stairs.

					    ALFRED
			Bruce, the computer search on the
			campaign check came through.  You
			were right.  It's Max.  The money
			for the Cobblepot Campaign Fund
			comes from the account of a small
			Waxed Lips company in the islands.
			Owned by the Shreck corporation.

	Bruce pauses on the staircase.

					    BRUCE
			Shreck bankrolling Penguin...Damn
			him.  I think we should send Max
			one of our little gifts.

					    ALFRED
			Agreed.

	Alfred opens up a cabinet as Bruce continues down the
	stairs.  Alfred takes out one of many identical SCARABE
	BROACHES.

					    BRUCE
			Why didn't you wake me, Alfred.
			The Re-lighting of the Tree is in
			a half-hour.

					    ALFRED
				  (awkwardly)
			I was hoping you would miss it.

					    BRUCE
			You heard Penguin in the Plaza
			today.  He's going to do
			something.  He practically issued
			an invitation to me.

					    ALFRED
			He did issue and invitation.  That
			is what I'm afraid of.  The
			whole thing is...

					    BRUCE
			I know...You didn't put any money
			on this, did you?

	Bruce smiles off until Alfred calls out, causing him to
	antsily semi-stop.

					    ALFRED
			And what of your friend?

					    BRUCE
			Oh, Miss Kyle.  Her name's Selina
			Kyle.  She's wonderful.  Tell her
			I had some business that came up
			and I'm really, really, sorry
			and...and communicate to her that
			I, I don't know, that I really
			like her.  Not just in a stupid
			"Be my girlfriend" way.  That she
			makes me feel very.... inside.
			Very...

					    ALFRED
				  ("get going")
			I will work on it, sir.

	Bruce smiles and bolts off.

	INT. WAYNE DEN--DUSK

	Selina slowly wakes out of her catlike ball with a
	purr.  She then looks to her watch and freaks upward.

	INT. THE WAYNE STAIRCASE--DUSK

	Selina dashes down the staircase.  Alfred glides out to
	greet her.

					    SELINA
			Alfred.  The butler, I mean, more
			than a butler.  Bruce's told me
			about you...

					    ALFRED
			Hellow, Miss Kyle.  Mr. Wayne
			told me to tell you...

	Selina semi-runs in place like Bruce did.

					    SELINA
			Mr. Wayne.  Tell Bruce, some
			business came up, and...And
			Alfred, tell him I've been going
			through a lot of changes and...
			no, don't tell him that.  Just...
			tell him, he makes me feel like
			I really actually think I am...
				  (laughing)
			Or you know, if you can cook up
			a sonnet or a dirty limerick or
			something.

					    ALFRED
			I will work on it.

	Alfred grins as Selina runs off.

	INT. BATCAVE--NIGHT

	Bruce breaks out the Bat suit and begins to get into it.
	A live broadcast from Gotham Plaza silently shows on a
	screen.

	INT. SELINA'S VOLKSWAGEN--NIGHT

	Selina chugs down the road, pulling her Catwoman outfit
	out from underneath the single-woman-old-People-magazine-
	Diet-Cola-can detrius of her Volkswagen.

	EXT. A GOTHAM ALLEY--NIGHT

	The Batmobile coasts into a deserted alley.  Batman
	activates the security cloak.  He storms off.

	EXT. GOTHAM PLAZA--NIGHT

	Gotham is ready to party.  A hearty mass of people are
	crammed into the Plaza before the gigantic, unlit Christ-
	mas Tree, breathless with an anticipation usually saved
	for New Year's.

	The Massive Electronic Teletype reads, "New Lights for
	the Tree.  New Hope for the City.  Shreck Electric..."

	EXT. THE SHRECK ALLEY--NIGHT

	The familiar Ratty Poodle, with an Elf hat on his head
	hobbles to the mouth of the alley.  Seeing the Batmobile,
	he barks off.

	Moments later, following the poodle, a perversely hetero-
	geneous squadron of other Penguin crew members dressed
	as elves, strategically surround the Batmobile, each
	holding a toolbox.  The Raggedy Barefoot Waif unzaps the
	security cloak.

	Each Elf, locks a card of a meticulous drawing onto a pro-
	truding headpiece, so each Elf can scan the card while
	toiling with both hands.  The Elves begin taking apart
	the Batmobile.

	EXT. GOTHAM PLAZA--NIGHT

	The Mayor paces the Plaza stage, badgering his staff.

					    MAYOR
			Let's just get the Ice Brat out
			here, get her to push the damn
			button, and light up the silly
			tree.  Then we all go safely home,
			roast Jack Frost's chestnuts on
			an open fire, and talk about what
			a good time we had and what a
			good mayor I am...Jim!  Didn't
			I say it'd be clockwork?

					    COMMISSIONER GORDON
			The Ice Princess has been
			kidnapped.

	Commissioner Gordon gravely steps forward with other
	policemen.  The Mayor goes into psychotic denial,
	addressing Gordon with the same chipper tone and
	expression.

					    MAYOR
			Jim!  Didn't I say it'd be
			clockwork.

					    GORDON
			It gets better.  It looks like the
			person who kidnapped her is...is..

	Overcome with grief, Commissioner Gordon holds out the
	slightly blood tinged Batman's bat-a-rang.

					    MAYOR
			Jim!  Didn't I say...Batman!  I
			always knew that freak was a
			security risk!

	EXT. TOP OF A GOTHAM BUILDING--NIGHT

	Batman takes a sentinel position above Gotham Plaza and
	scans the crowd.  He curiously watches Commissioner
	Gordon and his militia rush into police cars and screech
	off.

	Batman's attention is wrenched away by the sight of Cat-
	woman in the distance, panthering off one building onto
	another.  He watches her slink down to a lone lit up
	floor where Penguin can be distinctly seen cackling and
	waddling around a bound-on-a-chair and gagged Ice
	Princess.  Catwoman climbs into the window.

	Batman fires across a grapple to the ledge above the
	floor.

	EXT. THE ALLEY--NIGHT

	The Batmobile has been dismantled and picked apart like
	a post-Thanksgiving turkey.  The Quasi-Elves deviously
	perform delightfully incomprehensible and detailed handi-
	work upon the skeleton with their tools, while engaging
	in blue collar bitching.  Wires are twisted.  Clamps are
	added.  The piece de resistance is A WARPED-TECH BEACON/
	ANTENNAE that is placed carefully beneath the vehicle.

					    SWORD SWALLOWER
			I'm just saying, I wouldn't mind
			sitting down and having a drink
			with him.

					    STEELY DAME
			With that snob Batman!  I can't
			believe I'm hearing this from you!

					    DWARF ONE
			He's not saying he doesn't want
			to see Batman destroyed tonight.
			We all do.  But wouldn't it be
			intriguing to pick his brain.
			In a way, he's one of us...

					    NERDISH CLOWN
			His family was killed in a
			meaningless act of violence and
			he does the bat-vigilante thing
			out of revenge...That's my theory.

	Penguin's elves moan in disagreement.

					    SWORD SWALLOWER
			Damn, nobody wants to hear your
			boring theories.  Man, why did
			we let you in the gang?

	EXT. LEDGE--NIGHT

	Batman finishes a violently swooshing wire and pulley
	ride.  He slams against the wall of the building.  How-
	ever, the moment his feet land firmly on the ledge of
	the building, the lights in the large, lofty room
	containing Penguin, Catwoman, and the Ice Princess-in-
	distress, mysteriously go out.

	INT. INSIDE THE DESOLATE-EXCEPT-FOR-A-CHAIR FLOOR--NIGHT

	Creeping through the open window, Batman can make out the
	dimly lit figure of the Princess struggling in her chair.
	He undoes her gag.  Her eyes are looking out over his
	shoulder.

					    ICE PRINCESS
			Why is the building across the
			street laughing at us?

	A perplexed Batman turns to the windows not facing the
	Plaza.  A perfect configuration of lit windows in the
	building across the street form the flashing on-and-off
	word of HA  HA  HA.

	Batman tries to come up with a reaction to this bizzare
	sight, but his attention is directed downward by the
	sound of sirens.  The set of police cars that Batman saw
	leave from the square are now screeching up to the non-
	square side of the building.

					    BATMAN
			Strange.  A set-up.

					    ICE PRINCESS
			But Batman, how can somebody be
			set up for a kidnapping...I'll
			just tell the authorities the
			truth and...

					    CATWOMAN (O.S.)
			Who said this was a kidnapping?

	Catwoman drops down from the ceiling and launches a trade-
	mark full length kick at Batman, but the came-to-play
	Crusader grabs her heel and vigorously thrusts her
	backward into a shattering set of windows.

					    CATWOMAN
			I thought we had something
			together.

					    BATMAN
			We do.

	Batman swings out.  Catwoman backflips away to the
	Princess and slashes down.  But only to cut the Ice
	Damsel's ropes.  Catwoman rips her off the chair and
	tugs her through a door.

					    CATWOMAN
			Excuse us, Girl talk!

					    ICE PRINCESS
			He-lp!

	Batman hustles after them.

	EXT. THE ENTRANCE TO THE BUILDING--NIGHT

	Commissioner Gordon gloomily watches his men bash open
	the door.

	INT. BUILDING STAIRCASE--NIGHT

	Catwoman wrenches a resisting, squealing Ice Princess
	up a staircase.  Batman rumbles after them, a floor
	behind.

	EXT. THE ALLEY--NIGHT

	The Elves busily backtrack, putting the Batmobile back
	into its original state, piece by piece.

					    NERDISH CLOWN
			Then again maybe he's just a
			guy who has a thing for bats.

					    SWORD SWALLOWER
			Cork it.  We're a dream...

	Each Elf gives the Batmobile a simultaneous last little
	buff with his or her shoulder.  The Waif reactivates the
	security shield as the Elves skedaddle.

	INT. THE STAIRS--NIGHT

	Batman crashes up a final set of stairs through a door
	onto...

	EXT. THE BUILDING ROOFTOP--NIGHT

	Where Penguin is pointing an umbrella to the temple of
	the shuddering Ice Princess.  Catwoman is nowhere to be
	seen.

					    PENGUIN
			Batman!  My oh my, caught chasing
			Pussy-cat.  Glad you could make it.
			Nothing's worse than arriving late
			to an assassination.

					    BATMAN
			Drop the umbrella.  Your feelings
			of impotence have gone too far.
			You...

					    PENGUIN
				  (pretends to be
				   nodding off)
			Oh, sorry...Gee, I guess I never
			looked at it like that.  I feel
			pretty selfish.  Here Cinderella,
			you take it...

	Penguin hands over the umbrella to a befuddled Ice
	Princess.

	The handle of the umbrella clamps both the Ice
	Princess's hands and suddenly goes into its spinning,
	cloth shredding mini-helicopter mode!  The fully costumed
	Princess starts to float up over the edge of the roof.
	Batman races to outstretch after her, but she sputters
	out of reach, drifting out over Gotham Plaza.

	Penguin presses a button on a hand console.  The umbrella
	handle comes off in the Princess's hand.  She sails down,
	gorgeously wailing toward the crowd and the Christmas
	Tree below.

	EXT. POLICE STATION ROOF--NIGHT

	Dwarf Two in Elf threads hot-wires on the Bat Beacon
	Spotlight and tips it so the beam comes down off the sky
	right onto...

	EXT. THE BUILDING ROOF--NIGHT

	and Batman himself (!), who stands on its edge.

	EXT. DOWN AT THE PLAZA--NIGHT

	A viewed segment of the crowd peers up.

					    CROWD MEMBER
			Batman!  He pushed the Princess!

	The devastated Mayor and his staff follow with their
	heads the trajectory of the princess's body and their
	careers.

	The Princess's body slams down onto the big red button.

	This causes the Christmas tree to come to life, but not
	with lights.  A LEGION OF EEKING BATS bellow out from the
	tree's branches and swoop down upon the crowd, clawing
	at heads and shoulders.  Mind boggling pandemonium.

	Tearing and batting at the bats, people crunch through
	telephone booths and storefront windows.

	The Massive Electronic Teletype reads out:  YOU PEOPLE
	ARE NOT WORTH PROTECTING.  YOU ARE WORTH DESTROYING.
	LOVE, BATMAN.

	Punch and Juliet stand content in the eye of the frenzy.
	They give each other a thumbs-up sign.

	A PACK OF MADE OVER WOMEN IN SMOCKS plow from a beauty
	shop, besieged by bats violently re-arranging their
	hairdos.

	EXT. THE BUILDING ROOF--NIGHT

	Batman stands frozen under the Bat Beacon glow.  He
	snarls toward a whooping-it-up Penguin.

					    PENGUIN
			I knew it would be delicious, but
			this is too good...

	The cops blast through the rooftop door (which swings
	open to deftly hide the nearby Penguin).  Batman stops
	his snarl as the Officers open fire.

					    BATMAN
			Wait...

					    COMMISSIONER GORDON
			Hold your...

	The bullets violently ripple against Batman's armor,
	sending him reeling back, over the edge of the building.

	Batman tumbles in air, clangs off a terrace railing,
	then bone crackingly inverts onto the next building
	terrace.

	EXT. THE TERRACE--NIGHT

	A crumpled-on-the-ground Batman aches up, but is gently
	pushed down by the heel of an approaching Catwoman.

					    CATWOMAN
			You're purr-fect; everything I
			could ever want in a man: scared,
			confused, and about to die.

					    BATMAN
			I also play a mean accordion.

	The disguised Selina Kyle collapses into an erotic
	straddle of the disguised Bruce Wayne and gives him a
	quick lick.  The drunk-on-pain Batman focuses on some
	mistletoe hanging above Catwoman.  He manages a snort.
	Catwoman looks up and chuckles with him.

					    BATMAN
			A kiss under the mistletoe.  Did
			you know mistletoe is poisonous,
			if you eat it?

					    CATWOMAN
			But a kiss is deadlier, if you
			mean it.

	Catwoman unfastens the Bat belt from the semi-paralyzed
	superhero and flings it off the terrace.

					    BATMAN
			How did you know that truck would
			drive by after you jumped?

					    CATWOMAN
			I didn't.  What about you?  Did
			you mean what you said, Batman,
			the other night we hung out?
			About hating society?  Or were
			you just outmaneuvering me?

	EXT. BELOW--NIGHT

	The bat belt spins to the ground, its chemical payload
	half-exploding on impact.  Frightened Gothamites obli-
	viously scud past it.

	EXT. THE TERRACE--NIGHT

	Catwoman runs her talons down Batman's armor.

					    CATWOMAN
			No answer?  So much for foreplay.
			Who are you?  Who's the man
			behind the Bat.
			Maybe he can help me find the
			woman behind the Cat.
				  (pressing armor)
			That's not him...here you are...

	Catwoman's talons poise at the end of Batman's armor, just
	above the waist.  Catwoman thrusts.  Roaring up, Batman
	fiercely whams Catwoman off him, into a moaning ball.
	Batman operatically rises, bleeding from the talon holes
	and aching from every pore.  He moves to the edge of the
	terrace and does a swan dive off it.

	EXT. IN AIR--NIGHT

	From out the back of Batman's arcing downward costume,
	a pair of balsa wood-enforced, lithe black cloth kite-
	wings extend out and open.  Batman uses his wings as a
	hang gliding parachute, leveling off his mean trajectory.

	EXT. BELOW--NIGHT

	Gotham citizens stop their fleeing to gape at the
	terrifying sight of Batman flying amid his real-life
	counterparts.

	EXT. A SECLUDED ALLEY--NIGHT

	Batman continues to swoosh ever downward.  He edges out
	before the crowd.  Parallel to the ever-this-is-gotta-
	hurt-closer ground, Batman Brannifs into an alley down
	for a skidding, quasi-crash, leaving him barely conscious.
	The black balsa batwings crunch to pieces in the tumble.

	The lead pack of the crowd, A SURLY, HETEROGENEOUS MOB OF
	THREE (One is a cop) huff into the alley and surround
	Batman's body.

					    NIGHTSTICK COP
			Yes!  We bagged that big blue
			hypocrite!

					    ANGRY MOB MAN
			Let's crucify him...or something.

					    ANGRY MOB FEMALE
			The mask, jerk!  Take off the mask!

	The trio hunkers down as the Angry Mob Male fiddles with
	the back seam of the mask.  As he grits his teeth and
	makes a savage pull, the Batsuit Chestplate detonates
	and deflates, causing a burst of dark blue gas to blast
	up into his persecutors' faces.

	Batman coughs, awakens, and gives the Angry Male a solid
	kick, slamming him back into the others.  Aching up,
	Batman stumbles down the alley, breaking into a seething
	dash.

	EXT. ANOTHER BLOCK OF THE CITY--NIGHT

	Penguin gives a congratulatory two-handed grab of
	Catwoman's paws.  They are standing before a fountain
	that absurdly seems to have frozen during an Old
	Faithful-size upward splash.

					    PENGUIN
			Outstanding work.  You're Beauty
			and the Beast in one lusciously
			wrapped package.

					    CATWOMAN
			Right back at you.  Now we do
			some real damage to the
			powers-at-be...

					    PENGUIN
				  (not paying attention)
			You were the real thing, tonight.
			You're an incredible, creative
			villain and that's what makes it
			so hard to do what I have to do.
			...That department store you hit
			last night belonged to Max Shreck.

					    CATWOMAN
			What does that poisonous piece of
			Upstanding Citizen have to do with
			anything?

					    PENGUIN
				  (doing a cat screech)
			Temp-er.  Sorry, you feel so
			strongly, bu-ut Max Shreck is
			my bankroll, my boss, and a pretty
			neat guy all around...

					    CATWOMAN
			My God, you were the one.  The
			one he thought I saw him talking
			to.  That's why he...

	Catwoman gives off an incensed screech and spin.  She
	begins pounding her forehead just like Selina did,
	speaking in her voice.

					    CATWOMAN
			Corn dog!  Corn dog!  Corn dog!
			Max owns the good guys and the
			bad guys.  Even vulgar, twisted
			little mutants like Penguin!

					    PENGUIN
				  (poignantly)
			The name's Oswald Cobblepot, and
			I don't think I like you anymore.

	Penguin fires a petite fireball from his umbrella.  It
	sears into Catwoman's shoulder, blasting her back into a
	writhing fit.  He then puts an umbrella in her hand.
	It locks on.  And goes into a choppering fury.

					    PENGUIN
			Go to Heaven.

	Catwoman's wounded body is lifted from the ground,
	limping upward into the air.  Penguin sadly watches her
	go.

					    PENGUIN
			I knew I'd have to kill you.  It
			only made me love you more.

					    PUNCH
				  (rushing up)
			Batman has left the building.

					    JULIET
			What you did in the Plaza, they
			should put in a textbook...but
			you might want to think about
			going to Plan B now.

					    PENGUIN
				  (wistfully)
			Why not?

	A colossal Recreational Vehicle emblazoned with a VOTE
	FOR OSWALD insignia and a grand antennae rumbles up be-
	hind him.

	EXT. GOTHAM SKYLINE--NIGHT

	Catwoman's wounded body continues to endlessly whirl
	through the Gotham stratosphere, past its skyscrapers.

	She painfully reaches up with her free claw and tears
	open the handle lock.  She is released.

	Catwoman makes a dazzlingly awesome freefall plunge,
	finally crashing through a building skylight into...

	INT. A PENTHOUSE GREENHOUSE--NIGHT

	and a tableful of flowers.  She lies for a moment in
	stunned silence then launches up to wail an inhuman wail
	that tumultuously shatters all the greenhouse glass.

	EXT. THE BATMOBILE ALLEY--NIGHT

	A battered Batman gallops into the alley and undoes the
	security cloak on the deceptively pristine Batmobile.

	Batman thunks down into the driver's seat and takes a
	breath of guarded relief when suddenly the doors make
	severe locking noises.  All systems on the control panel
	flash on by themselves.  The engine cacophonously vrooms
	up.

	INT. THE RECREATIONAL VEHICLE--NIGHT

	Penguin scuttles into the back of the motor home, past
	various Carnival creeps.  He bounces into a seat before
	an absurdly twisted, Renaissance-tech remote control
	panel of switches, buttons, and levers, all labeled with
	functions of the Batmobile, including a mini-steering
	wheel.

	INT. THE BATMOBILE--NIGHT 

	Batman pounds his fist into a Batmobile window to no
	effect.  Penguin's face comes on his screen the same way
	Alfred's innocuously did before.

					    PENGUIN (screen)
			Don't adjust your set.  Welcome
			to the Oswald Cobblepot School
			of Driving.  If you're not
			humiliated and dead by the end of
			our first lesson, money back
			guaranteed.  Gentleman, start
			your screaming...

	Batman becomes motionless.  The vehicle thunders forward,
	slamming his back.

	EXT. THE BATMOBILE--NIGHT

	blasts from the alley and makes a wild turn onto the
	street.

	INT. RECREATIONAL VEHICLE--NIGHT

	Penguin rambunctiously joggles the steering wheel.  On
	one screen, he sees Batman's drained face.  On another
	screen is batmobile-eye view.

					    PENGUIN
			I know this is a bad time to
			mention it.  But I don't even
			have a license.  Thought you
			might like to know.

	EXT./INT. THE BATMOBILE--NIGHT

	Shrieks wildly down the street and up the sidewalk,
	sending people and things screaming and crashing.

					    BATMAN
			Thanks...

	Batman sneers in mortification then bashes down and tears
	off a shard of his console.  He rips and tugs at various
	wires.

	Penguin gives a disappointed frown from the screen.

					    PENGUIN (screen)
			Oh come on, just sit back and
			enjoy the ride.  The night is
			young.  Oh, watch out for the
			newsstand...

	EXT. THE BATMOBILE--NIGHT

	demolishes a newsstand, scaring off terrified bystanders.

	INT. RECREATIONAL VEHICLE--NIGHT

	Penguin scratches his chin.

					    PENGUIN
			Fire hydrant?  Too cliche.

	The Batmobile swerves past a fire hydrant, wildly
	surging...

	EXT. INTO GOTHAM PLAZA--NIGHT

	The Batmobile ferociously heads into the Plaza and buzzes
	the rejuvenated-in-a-bad-way townpeople.

	INT. RECREATIONAL VEHICLE--NIGHT

	PENGUIN plays his controls like the Phantom of the Opera.

	EXT. GOTHAM SQUARE--NIGHT

	Batman rages as the batmobile sides flank out, no longer
	in the name of good, but to bash down fleeing bystanders.

	Levers on the console go down by themselves.  Batman
	slams out to give them Herculean pushes upward.

	The steel spikes Gatling-blast out everywhere, destroying
	all-remaining Christmas decorations.

	EXT. PLAZA--NIGHT

	REPORTER BIX CARBONDALE shouts into the camera.

					    BIX CARBONDALE
			This is Bix Carbondale in Gotham
			Plaza.  Batman is out of control.
			First came the bats and now...

	A flying steel chunk smashes Carbondale to the ground.

	INT. THE BATMOBILE SCREEN--NIGHT

	Penguin talks through the screen as Batman tears at his
	console.

					    PENGUIN
			You gotta admit it feels good.
			You saw the way these taterheads
			turned on you.  Tell me it's not
			a little fun.

					    BATMAN
			I'm not...this isn't.

	EXT. GOTHAM SQUARE--NIGHT

	Meanwhile, a pack of Gothamites flee in different
	directions, leaving the Adorable Little Girl from the
	opening stranded and confused.  The Batmobile specta-
	cularly angles right at her.  She's a bunny paralyzed by
	the headlights.

	INT. THE RECREATIONAL VEHICLE--NIGHT

	Penguin licks his lips as the screen zooms toward her.

					    PENGUIN
			Oh, this is going to hurt her a
			lot more than its going to hurt
			you.

	Penguin presses down on the accelerator.

	INT./EXT. THE BATMOBILE--NIGHT

	Batman looks to the oncoming child and goes dead.

	He yanks open a ceiling panel, revealing another myriad
	of wires and fuses.  He stares with spooky undistracted
	concentration.  He pulls out a round fuse.

	The Batmobile squeals to a sudden dead halt, centimeters
	from the vibrating then fleeing Adorable Little Girl.

	INT. THE RECREATIONAL VEHICLE--NIGHT

	Penguin moans out of annoyed sexual non-release.

					    PENGUIN
			Oh God, why...why did you stop.
			It felt so good, so...what the
			heck, how about one last spin!
			Buckle Up!

	EXT. GOTHAM PLAZA--NIGHT

	The steel jack-type device again explodes out of the
	bottom of the Batmobile, lifting it up off the ground.
	But instead of going into a simple, suave 180 twist,
	the batmobile convulses into a Tasmanian Devil spin that
	revolves the car around at mind-roasting speed.  A
	battalion of police cars surround it.  Officers unhatch
	and begin firing.

	INT. THE BATMOBILE--NIGHT

	Breaking into a loud snarl, a swirling Batman tries to
	mangle open his matching square knob.  Penguin's image
	on the spinning screen surreally cackles....

	INT. THE RECREATIONAL VEHICLE--NIGHT

	Penguin twists the Square knob some more and then kicks
	back in his seat to watch and squawk.

					    PENGUIN
			Who wants to go faster?  I can't
			hear you!  Come on, everybody
			raise your hands!

	EXT. THE BATMOBILE--NIGHT

	spins even faster.

	Batman rips off his own square knob, pounds back the fuse
	above him, and rips sparks some wires in his steering
	wheel.

	The jack is sucked back up and the Batmobile breaks out
	of its cartoon swirl and blusters forward deftly between
	two police cars, screeching molecules to spare.

	INT. RECREATIONAL VEHICLE--NIGHT

	Penguin falls back off his seat in anger and shock.

	INT. A CAR REPAIR GARAGE--THE SAME DAMN EVENING

	A scruffy Teen, who'll be referred to as THE KID, is
	sweeping the grimy floor of a small, gloomy car repair
	garage.  He wears a wildly tattered grease-monkey uni-
	form and a blaring Walkman which prevents him from
	hearing the sound of shouts and sirens.  He pits down
	his broom and sighs a sigh.

					    THE KID
			Too much excitement for one night...
			Why do I keep reading this stuff?

	The Kid picks up a comic book that says THE TRUE LIFE
	ADVENTURES OF BATMAN and moves down upon a sleeping bag
	on the concrete floor of the garage.  He opens up the
	comic book....just as the Batmobile spectacularly
	crashes through the glass garage doors and screech stops
	over two jack flanks.

					    BATMAN
			Up!

	The Kid de-Walkmans and flings his silly comic book.  He
	slaps up a lever that launches up the two jack flanks
	into the belly of the batmobile, lifting the oversize
	vehicle off the ground.

	INT. THE RECREATIONAL VEHICLE--NIGHT

	Penguin frantically grasps and twists his steering wheel.

					    PENGUIN
			What...why?

	INT. THE GARAGE--NIGHT

	The wheels of the lifted Batmobile futilely twist and
	spin.

	INT. THE BATMOBILE--NIGHT

	Penguin shouts on the screen.

					    PENGUIN (screen)
			You're cheating!  You dirty bat--

	Batman pounds his fist through the screen, shutting him
	up.  Batman then takes a piece of the batmobile console
	and jimmies open his door.

	INT. THE GARAGE--NIGHT

	Batman dramatically lands, staring face to face with
	the Kid.

					    THE KID
			Oh man....I don't believe...Fill
			er up?  Check the oil?  Key to the
			restroom?  Don't talk.  I might
			wake up.

	The Kid kicks forward a small stepladder, grabs a
	toolbox, and lurches forward.

	INT. THE RECREATIONAL VEHICLE--NIGHT

	Penguin and his crew are now angrily re-working the
	wiring on their console.

					    PENGUIN
			Get out there and repo!  It's my
			toy!

	Penguin's Circus Foot Soldiers come charging out of the
	RV.

	INT. THE SEEDY GARAGE--NIGHT

	Talking as fast as he works, with barely human speed and
	desterity, juggling a variety of tools, the Kid dances
	out a dazzling pit stop surgery that causes the glowing
	Beacon Rod to drop into his suddenly stopping hands.

					    THE KID
			Oh man, this car is a religion!
			And it's not even an import.  You
			know, I'm getting into the whole
			crime-fighting arena myself.  So
			far, it's just been a couple
			shoplifters and a drunk driver.
			You know, only so much I can do on
			a bike.  And I'm a little shaky on
			this whole Bat-Cat-Penguin thing,
			don't you know.  I mean, what, I
			gotta be Goat Boy?  I gotta put on
			a cowbell and shout Moo before I
			bust some guy's--Whoa, Batman, you
			can't be serious with these lame-
			ass shocks.  FIne automobile like
			this...You must got stock in the
			company.  Here let me set you up--
				  (to beacon)
			...Hello, talk about a specialty
			part...

	The Kid tosses the beacon to an impressed Batman who
	snaps it off in his catching hand.

					    BATMAN
			Thanks.

	INT. THE RECREATIONAL VEHICLE--NIGHT

	Penguin's contraption completely goes dead.  Penguin
	flops down.

					    PENGUIN
			It was the perfect evening.
			Disgraced my enemy.  Had a Date.
			Watched her die.  Now this!
			Unfair!

	INT. THE GARAGE--NIGHT 

	Batman lets the snapped beacon pieces clatter to the
	ground.

					    BATMAN
			Appreciate it.  Wallet's in my
			other pants.

					    THE KID
			On me...

	Batman looks off to the sound of commotion.  The Kid
	glances up through the open door of the Batmobile.  A
	peculiar, multi-dark-colored object resembling a morbid
	pinwheel top pokes up from the floor.  The Kid snatches
	it...

	as four of Penguin's garish Circus foot soldiers tear
	through the shattered garage door.  Batman steps forward,
	but before he can do anything else, the Kid kicks up his
	toolbox and ferociously swings it across two of the
	thugs' faces, splaying them to the floor.  Another one
	lunges out...

					    THE KID
			Yo Batman, if that is your name,
			you on your break or what?

					    BATMAN
			Don't talk.  Down and left.

	The Kid spins down and launches into a deft martial
	artistic kick-and-sweep that levels the attacker.  AN
	UNSPORTING CARNIVAL CREEP points out a gun toward the
	Kid's back.  Batman cooly pelts down the Garage's jack
	lever.

	The Batmobile slams down on the Unsporting Creep's foot.
	Batman savagely frisbees a hubcap into his yelping face,
	knocking him cold.

	A couple of the previously bashed Thugs pull out more
	impressize artillery and begin firing.  Batman rips the
	frozen Kid into the Batmobile with him.

	INT. THE BATMOBILE--NIGHT

	The Kid sits in the driver's seat in a state of shock.
	Batman turns as bullets batter the window.

					    BATMAN
			"Reverse" might be a good way to
			start.

	The Kid does a cartoon wobble of his head then reaches
	out.

	INT. THE GARAGE--NIGHT

	In one awesomely fluid move, the Batmobile squeals back-
	ward past the thugs, through whatever remains of the
	garage door, and into the street where it rams into a
	passing police car.

	INT./EXT. THE BATMOBILE--NIGHT 

	The Kid smiles.

					    THE KID
			Not bad pickup.  Zero to 60 in no
			seconds.  Could get used to this.

	The Batmobile screams away.  It turns a corner to zig
	and zag among people and public landmarks.

	The Kid works the steering wheel like any arcade prodigy.

					    THE KID
			I think I'm going to get a free
			game.

					    BATMAN
			Funny.  A right.

	EXT. STREET--NIGHT

	THE MALEVOLENT FIRE ENGINE wails into the chase, with
	the Fire-clowns and some Steely Dames scattered across
	its top.  Two Police Cars swerve in beside it.  All
	parties blow out their weaponery at the Batmobile.

	INT. THE BATMOBILE--NIGHT

	The Kid is getting queasy from the bullet barrage.
	Batman begins methodically rummaging through his
	console's twisted wires.

					    THE KID
			Is there a reason why the police
			and the Fire depart--I don't wanna
			know.  All the times I ever dreamed
			of driving the Batmobile, I never
			got killed!  I want you to know
			that!  Strictly mow down the bad
			guys and maybe pick up some mature
			ladies for a night cap...

					    BATMAN
				  (not looking up)
			Left.

	INT. THE POLICE CAR--NIGHT

	Revealed in the passenger seat, Commissioner Gordon stops
	shooting to make loony eye contact with his criminal Uzi-
	toting elf-Clown-Firemen-Steely Dame counterparts.

	INT./EXT. THE BATMOBILE--NIGHT

	Batman works through the wires at a more quickened pace.

					    BATMAN
			Right.

					    THE KID
			Right?  Now whoa, the right is a
			dead...

					    BATMAN
				  (slightly raising voice)
			Right.

	The Batmobile swooshes onto a road that has two, omni-
	potent brick buildings towering at the end of it with
	only a small not-quite-a-car-let-alone-a-Batmobile-size
	gap between them.

	EXT. STREET--NIGHT

	THE POLICE and the Fire Engine screech in behind them.

					    STEELY DAME
			Mr. Cobblepot, he's in the bag!

	INT./EXT. THE BATMOBILE--NIGHT

	The Kid is barely holding in Don Knotts-size yelps.

					    THE KID
			I knew it!  We'll never fit!  This
			is my town!  I say it's a dead end
			then that end will be dead!

					    BATMAN
			Don't worry.  Faster.

					    THE KID
			Faster?  Wake up and smell our
			corpses, you Count Dracula loving...
			Man, stop trying to fix the tape
			deck!

	The Batmobile streaks closer to the building.  The Cops
	and the Thugs continue to fire.

	Batman sparks two wires together.  The windsheild wipers
	come on.

					    BATMAN
				  (gently puzzled)
			What's funny?  I ain't laughing!
			Dirty jokes about other people's
			mother are funny!  Monkeys in
			rollerskates smoking cigars are
			funny!  This isn't...

	The buildings loom before the windshield.

					    BATMAN
				  (with a strange laugh)
			Now I'm a little worried...Oh.

	Batman connects two wires.

	EXT. BATMOBILE--NIGHT

	The sides of the Batmobile break off and clang to the
	ground and the wheels of the car remarkably contort in
	a single file roller blade position, leaving only a
	sleek missile of a car that smoothly darts between the
	gap of the two buildings.

	EXT. THE STREET--NIGHT

	Gordon's cars and the Fire Engine try a last minute
	unswerve, but end up swirling together into the building
	fronts in a staggering pile up.

	EXT. OTHER SIDE OF THE BUILDINGS' GAP--NIGHT

	The Bat-missile-mobile slashes out of the gap.

	The Kid whoops in laughter out the doorless vehicle.
	batman smiles.  The car does a suave, angled speed skate
	around a corner.

	INT. THE RECREATIONAL VEHICLE--NIGHT

	Penguin is snarling into his radio.  The Nerdish Circus
	Spook Scientist stares out the window.

					    PENGUIN
			It did what?  Find him!

					    NERDISH SPOOK
			Sir, I have some good news and some
			bad news.  Good news.  I found him.

					    PENGUIN
			What's the bad...
				  (looking out window)
			Ugh-ooh.  Gotcha.

	The new batmobile is seen bolting right at them.

	THE NEW BATMOBILE--NIGHT 

	Batman turns to the Kid.

					    BATMAN
			I want to wear him.

	EXT. THE NEW STREET--NIGHT

	The Batmobile drills up through the RV and out the other
	side, through the Vote for Cobblepot sign.  It then
	proceeds to mosey down the calm and deserted street.

	EXT. STREET CORNER--NIGHT

	The Batmobile squeaks to a teetering stop.  The Kid
	wobbles out with a dazed grin.  Batman moves into his
	place.

					    BATMAN
			Not bad.

					    THE KID
			Uh, yeah, hey, my card.  Maybe we
			can get together again if...

	The Kid tugs out a rumpled card from his uniform.
	Batman takes it with a nod, then screeches off.

	In a glow, the Kid watches the vehicle make a debonair
	swerve around a corner.

	A couple of Street Punks scuffle up behind the Kid.

					    STREET PUNK
			Hey man, where were you?  Did you
			see what happened in the Plaza...

					    THE KID
				  (beside himself,
				   frustrated)
			Did you just see...I was with...I
			was in...I was driving..I..Did you...
				  ("They'll never
				   believe it")
			Oh, forget it.

	The Kid wearily beams off.  He wipes off his arms, then
	brushes his chest.  He smooths off some grease that
	reveals an enigmatic R on his uniform.

	EXT. GOTHAM PLAZA--THE NEXT DAY

	The viewer's viewpoint pulls out on what was once the
	Batman Merchandising Store.  It is in the process of
	being refurbished with Penguin goodies--clocks, lunch
	boxes, T-shirts, and umbrellas.  Moving upward, one
	sees, wearing scattered bandages, Penguin, standing tall
	upon the stage, bathed in cheers, a Red, White, and Blue
	Umbrella in his hand.

					    PENGUIN
			When it came to making this city
			safe, the Mayor had not a plan,
			only a man.  A Bat-man.  A spooky
			and abnormal ticking time bomb of
			a man, who finally exploded last
			night.  Unlike the Mayor, I tried
			to defuse him.  I cut him off with
			my RV.

	INT. A WAYNE MANOR STUDY--DAY

	A Wall Unit T.V. in a mezzanine-type level study, over-
	looking the Manor Living room continues to show the
	gleaming Penguin.

					    CROWD (T.V.)
			Recall!  Recall!  Recall!

	A bat-a-rang whooshes through the air, bangs the on off
	button, turning the image of weeping Penguin off and
	then boomerangs back to Bruce, who is standing with
	sunglasses on.  Alfred is stitching his arm.

					    BRUCE
			Restores my faith in inhumanity.

					    ALFRED
			Commissioner Gordon called to warn
			us that Batman will probably try
			to attack the elite of the city.

					    BRUCE
			What did you tell him?

					    ALFRED
			I told him that since you, in fact,
			are Batman, that this does not
			pose a problem.

					    BRUCE
			Alfred, you're on a roll.

					    ALFRED
			What is considerably less amusing
			is that you let this car-hop-street-
			urchin actually drive...

					    BRUCE
			Alfred, I don't want to talk bout
			it...

					    ALFRED
			You let him see...

					    BRUCE
			Alfred.  Who let Vicki Vale into
			the batcave?  I'm down there
			working, I turn around, "Oh hi,
			Vicki, have a seat..."

					    ALFRED
				  (seriously)
			I was just so...worried and
			frightened...the bats...On the T.V.,
			Bix Carbondale getting bonked in
			the back of the...

					    BRUCE
			You should have warned me not to go.

	Bruce and Alfred share a warm chuckle, then get serious.
	Bruce pulls out the check.  As he speaks, Bruce saunters
	to an aquarium tank full of violently exotic fish.  He
	rolls up his sleeve, then shoots his arm in the water to
	twist an underwater castle shaped like Wayne Manor.  The
	fish swarm his arm.

					    ALFRED
			Well, is there at least a way to
			send the information about the
			Cobblepot Campaign Fund to
			Commissioner Gordon?

					    BRUCE
			Max can't be treated like a purse
			snatcher.  He's protected by the
			Mayor.  So that's why I anonymously
			sent a copy of the check and the
			information directly to our
			backstabbed Mayor himself.  I have
			no illusions about our Mayor's
			actual power, but there can't help
			being some fireworks.  Let's see
			how much Max gets burned.

	Bruce pulls his arm from the underwater castle.  He
	continues calmly speaking as a bookcase dramatically
	opens revealing a little key undramatically hung on a
	hook.  Bruce unceremoniously picks it off and heads
	toward a wide, closed Sarcophagus in the corner of the
	room that has been painted with the design of an Ancient
	and Mysterious woman.  Bruce eyes it.

					    BRUCE
			Oh Alfred, did Selina get home
			okay?

	INT. SELINA'S APARTMENT--DAY

	The viewer is suddenly taken wildly through Selina's
	apartment, into her kitchenette.  Curled in a quivering
	ball on the floor, still in her Catwoman outfit, Selina
	shivers as a deranged spray of water from her broken-
	again faucet spews all over her.  Her cat screams atop
	Selina's inert, drenched body.

	In Selina's hand is a soggy invitation to Max Shreck's
	annual Christmas Eve MAXquerade Ball.

	INT. WAYNE MANOR STUDY--DAY

	The viewer is whipped back into the Wayne Study.

					    ALFRED
			I am sure she got home just fine.
			She seems like a very nice woman.

					    BRUCE
			She is.

	With the key, Bruce opens the Coffin, revealing it is
	an Iron Maiden, lined with sharp spikes.  Bruce steps
	inside it.

					    ALFRED
			I believe I'll take the stairs.

	Bruce nods as the Iron Maiden begins to close.  The
	spikes suddenly lower themselves.  The bottom drops out.

	INT. THE BATCAVE--DAY

	Bruce slides out of an inclined chute into an unbroken
	stroll to a batcave console.  He does some unseen console
	punching and calls out to Alfred, who is chugging down a
	staircase.

					    BRUCE
			Max receive our gift?

					    ALFRED
			Oh yes, and I told him how nice it
			would look in his conference room.

	Bruce presses a button that resembles the Scarabe gift.

	INT. MAX SHRECK'S CONFERENCE ROOM--DAY

	The viewer's viewpoint pulls out from the elegant Scarabe
	gift resting on a shelf in Shreck's conference room.  The
	Mayor and his staff vibrate past this literal Bug, into
	the room with an unleashed, but unavoidably a little
	tentative anger like children discovering an emotion for
	the first time.

	The unflinchingly zen Max Shreck is in his chair in the
	middle of the conference room.  It is slowly, creepily
	revolving in a circle.  He is again disturbingly toying
	with his Music Box.

					    MAYOR
			Max Shreck, you're a fiend.  A
			grubby fiend and I'm not afraid
			to say it.  In fact, I just did
			say it.  My office was given...
			information; about you, Penguin,
			and all this....!

					    MAX SHRECK
			It's about time someone realized
			those big checks were coming from
			somewhere interesting....

					    MAYOR
			You wanted me to find out about
			this?

	Max lifts his battered and acupunctured Music Box.

					    MAX SHRECK
			How else could you learn your
			lesson?  Last month, I bought this
			music box, but it would not play
			music.  Now I could have taken it
			back to the store, taken it to a
			repairman--I could have put the
			company out of business.
			Unsatisfying.  This box needed to
			be punished, tortured.  I mangled
			it with tools and wires and lined
			its gears with acid.  At times, I
			can hear it scream.

	INT. THE BATCAVE--DAY

	Huddled around the console, Bruce and Alfred listen in
	horror.

					    MAX (O.S.; Speaker)
			The only way to fight the pain of
			society is to become it.

	INT. MAX SHRECK CONFERENCE ROOM--DAY

	Max halts his spinning chair, directly facing the Mayor.

					    MAX
			Like nature itself, I don't allow
			anyone to get away with anything,
			not even this barely animate
			object.  I don't just run Gotham
			city, I'm its twisted soul.  I
			build soaring skyscrapers--and
			scummy slums.  I sponsored Planet
			Appreciation Day--while operating
			polluting factories in about
			every continent.

	The visitors are slumped in defeat.  They reach out to a
	small bin, pull out pieces of licorice, and begin glumly
	munching.

					    MAYOR
			This is all about me not letting
			you build that stupid chemical
			plant.  All this pain...

					    MAX SHRECK
			It is about a principle.  You
			betrayed me, admittedly slightly,
			but still, a lesson had to be
			learned.  By plucking a disgusting
			monster from the sewers and giving
			him your crown, I hopefully taught
			one.

					    MAYOR
			But if we give you the damn...
			factory, can you, I mean, will you,
			stop Penguin and the Crimewave?

					    MAX SHRECK
				  (ascending)
			Oh, of course.  Mayor Cobblepot
			was a joke I never intended in
			telling the punchline to.  It'll
			just take a couple phone
			calls.....But you know, you really
			haven't apologized.

					    MAYOR
				  ("you son-of-a-bitch--!")
			Apolo--!
				  ("What's the use")
			I'm......sorry.

					    MAX SHRECK
			Oh heck, that's okay...don't give
			it another thought.  Tonight's my
			annual Christmas Eve Max-querade
			Party at the Club.  You should be
			there.  Really.

					    MAYOR
			With bells on....

	INT. THE BATCAVE--DAY

	The unhappy pair hear the sound of a door closing and
	rich Max Shreck laughter.  Bruce clicks off the speaker
	and sullenly breaks away from the console.

					    BRUCE
			I guess we showed him.

					    ALFRED
			What makes Max Shreck think he can
			so effortlessly get away with
			these acts?

					    BRUCE
			History....I only wonder how
			Penguin is going to take the news
			he's being cut off?

					    ALFRED
			Dear Bruce, Penguin couldn't have
			possibly thought he was going to
			be Mayor.  I mean, really!  You're
			not laughing.

					    BRUCE
			I'm not laughing.

	INT. PENGUIN'S CAMPAIGN HEADQUARTERS--DAY

	Penguin gleefully prances through the doors of his
	campaign headquarters.  Some Circus Creeps in incon-
	gruously patriotic clothing, dutifully chuckle in behind
	him.

					    PENGUIN
			So once I become Mayor, I'm gonna
			clothe the hungry, feed the naked.
			Two chickens in every...

	The mirth of Penguin and his crew is assassinated the
	moment they look forward.  The entire headquarters has
	been stripped bare.  All that is left is the Walk/Don't
	Walk scoreboard which clicks to 14,868/17,000, empty bird
	cages, and a stark phone on top of a stool that begins
	ringing.  Penguin stumbles to the phone like a gutshot
	Dog.

					    PENGUIN
			Hell-o.

	INT. MAX'S CONFERENCE ROOM--DAY

	As Max glibs out on speaker phone, he pours a beaker of
	acid onto the churning gears of the Music Box turn along
	with the victim-ballerina.  A barely audible but painful
	whine can be heard.  Punch and Juliet are revealed to be
	seated at the conference table, biting their lips in red
	faced laughter.

					    MAX
			Oswald, how's it hanging?  I don't
			know how to begin to thank you.
			Your enthusiasm has only been
			exceeded by your evil genius.  But
			alas, it's time to call it a day.

	INT. CAMPAIGN HEADQUARTERS--DAY

	Penguin is beside himself, attacked by a menu of
	emotions.  He orders "Helpless."

					    PENGUIN
			What day?  I don't get it.  I was
			winning.  Haven't you seen the
			crowds?  Haven't you read the
			editorials?  Haven't...
				  (pathetic, laughing)
			Why Max, you ole skindog, this is
			one of those practical Bloopers,
			ain't it?  Where's the cameras?

	Penguin pathetically looks around.

	INT. THE SHRECK CONFERENCE ROOM--DAY

	Max condescendingly smiles.  Punch and Juliet whimper.

					    MAX
			People came to see you, because
			you were a good show.  Limited
			Engagement.  Did you really think
			you'd become Mayor?  A Freak?
			Causing a recall election?  Gosh,
			I feel bad now.  I misled
			you...You know, Oswald have you
			ever considered doing one of those
			delightful Professional Wrestling
			shows?

	INT. CAMPAIGN HEADQUARTERS--DAY

	Penguin now chooses Anger.

					    PENGUIN
			Pro Wrestling!  Everybody knows
			that's not real!  I'm real!  A
			leader with vision and charisma!
			I was going to start a Program to
			teach Illiteracy and get rid of
			that Ozone layer that's been
			bothering everybody.  You can't
			weasel out on me!  I nailed that
			Catbimbo for you!

	INT. THE SHRECK CONFERENCE ROOM--DAY

	Max doesn't lose his cool.

					    MAX
			By the way, if you come within
			200 feet of me or my new security
			force, you'll be put in an
			institution for the rest of your
			life.  Toodles.

	INT. CAMPAIGN HEADQUARTERS--DAY

	Penguin's dazed hand lets the phone drop.  As he did
	before the spooky but HAPPY CLOWN rushes up to console
	his boss.

					    HAPPY CLOWN
			Gee Oswald, what's the matter?

	Penguin swings around and thwacks the Happy Clown with
	his umbrella just as he did before.  Penguin's face
	contorts into a metamorphosis of pain and serene self-
	analysis.

					    PENGUIN
			My name's not Oswald Cobblepot.
			It's Penguin!  And we're going
			home.

	EXT. THE OLD ZOO--DAY

	With an operatic whoosh, Penguin clangs open the gates
	of the old zoo.  His low rent circus henchmen scramble
	to keep up as the invigorated Penguin marches past the
	desolate zoo trappings--barren cages, cracked sculptures,
	the Gargantuan, but seedy Electrical Phalanx and the
	Zoocoaster.

	As he roams and rages, Penguin robustly tosses off his
	top hat, rips open his tuxedo and yanks off his white
	gloves, wiggling his webbed hands.

					    PENGUIN
			Home.  What I missed most was the
			beauty.  Simply ravaging.
				  (pang of self-contempt)
			How could I be so stupid to think
			I could get respect.  How could I
			be so stupid to want it in the
			first place!  Let's just call it
			Temporary sanity.  The only
			souvenir I'll keep is the monocle.
				  (burst of renewal)
			I feel so alive!  I am not a human
			being!  I am an animal!

	Penguin and his crew bustle upon passing rollercoaster
	cars.  Penguin takes a Washington-crossing-the-Delaware-
	stance upon one of them as it chugs forward.

	INT. THE LAIR--DAY

	Penguin heartily hatches from the rollercoaster cart.
	The Ice Conference table has melted into a majestic
	stalagmite blob.  Penguin lets off a booming squawk of
	happiness.  Responding to the call, his penguins flap
	and slide out of the water.

					    PENGUIN
			Oh my babies...do you forgive me?
			For leaving and then coming back
			with my tail between my...somebody
			turn down the thermostat, I'm
			boiling!  It must be two degrees
			in here!  What do...

	Penguin spins to see the Four Gray-Bellied Emperor
	Penguins (from the opening) emerge from a dark patch
	in the back of the lair.  All penguins and people go
	silent to behold their royal appearance.  Except for a
	middle-of-a-conversation Dwarf Two.

					    DWARF TWO
			So I slam down that Bat spotlight
			thing, and man, if you could have
			seen the look on his face...

	Not taking his eyes off the Emperors, Penguin waps the
	Dwarf with one of his flippers.

					    PENGUIN
			Shut up, Shorty.....The Elders.
			Oh mighty, wondrous, luminous
			mentors!  What does your
			appearance at this tumultuous
			period, mean?

	The Four Elder Penguins suddenly, simultaneously bray,
	then stop.  Penguin's face melts into Mount Rushmore
	seriousness then explodes into savage glee.  He slides
	across what remains of the Ice conference table.

					    PENGUIN
			It is all so clear.  You want me
			to go back one last time.  If I
			can't be king, I'll destroy the
			kingdom!  If I can't have Gotham's
			respect, I'll get the next best
			thing, its fear!  Make that the
			first best thing!

	As Penguin bellows, his cohorts match his rabid excite-
	ment.  They tear away the scaffolding from the "mission
	control" panel.  They blow the dust off its surveillance
	screens.  They latch open patches of Ice that reveal
	state-of-the-Surrealist-art missiles and weaponry.
	Penguin rustles out some of his sketches that show
	penguins in various states of Warrior-wear.

					    PENGUIN
			Max Shreck.  The Mayor.  Those
			brats with the stupid names--Punch
			and Juliet.  And if he's not too
			tired from last night, Batman.
			It's a time of sharing, and I have
			so much to give.  I have learned
			the true meaning of Christmas:
			Life is pure, unadulterated pain,
			so you gotta take a couple days
			off at the end of the year to have
			some fun.  Conga!

	Penguin makes a terrifying squawk and the penguins
	simultaneously hustle into a single file line, which
	Penguin leaps to the front of.  With rhythmic squawking
	from all, Penguin and the penguins Conga.

	INT. THE BATCAVE--DAY

	Bruce sulks around the battered, anorexic Batmobile,
	casually knocking out dents.  ALfred marches up, worried.

					    BRUCE
			All these years of bataranging
			two-bit hoods off their tricycles
			and the real power, the real evil,
			calmly goes to work in Gotham
			Plaza and collects "Man of the
			Year" plaques.

					    ALFRED
			Bruce, this attitude of yours...It
			makes me...Is it only the memory
			of your parents that inspires you.
			It seems like it.  You have as
			much contempt for the people of
			this city as Max and Penguin
			combined.

					    BRUCE
			You don't understand, Alfred.  I
			do care for the weak, pathetic,
			and gullible people of Gotham Cirt.
			Because I'm one of them.

	Alfred nods proudly then looks to a letter in his hand.

					    ALFRED
			The invitations to Mr. Shreck's
			loathsome masquerade party came in
			the mail today.  I take it I
			should R.S.V.P. most vehemently in
			the negative.

					    BRUCE
			Alfred, don't be unmelodramatic.
			Break out the lampshades, we're
			going.

					    ALFRED
			May I ask, "What as?"

	Bruce ambles to the ajar case that houses his bat
	suit.

					    BRUCE
			You'll never guess.

	Bruce firmly closes the glass case door and walks off.

	INT. A GLITZY DECADENCETHEQUE--NIGHT

	Max Shreck's masquerade party is going full blast at a
	malevolently glitzy Post-Everything Club.  A PERVERSE
	BAND is cranking out a sultry headbanger.  The PARTY
	GUESTS dance and gab completely IN COSTUME--costumes
	that are exotic, erotic, enthralling, evil, and pretty
	stupid.

	A GAGGLE OF STRANGELY FAMILIAR PENGUINS WEARING BIZARRE
	HEADGEAR AND DARLING CAPES are sprinkled amid the
	subversively Christmased decor.  Live or fake?

	Max Shreck schmoozes through the crowd in a terrifying
	black leather jacket-and-everything-else-ensemble with
	a vivid red leather eye mask.  TOUGH GLADIATORS WEARING
	SECRET SERVICE SHADES AND EARPHONES loom around him.

					    MAX
			And then we found out he was
			homeless!

	The Partygoers around Max break into giggles.  An
	ARMORED KNIGHT next to them lifts his visor to bulge
	his eyes at this annoying behavior.  It is Alfred.

	The Mayor simmers, raising his glass with a bullshit
	smile, at the toasting in the distance Max.

	The Mayor is dressed in a Roman Toga that sprouts a
	Caesar-style myriad of plasric daggers and fake blood
	holes.  His staff are dressed as COURT JESTERS, covered
	with tingling bells.  Commissioner Gordon sidles up to
	the Mayor, dressed as a Viking.

					    GORDON
			Mayor, I can't say I feel right
			standing around sipping eggnog and
			hitting on all the Catwomen, when
			the Christmas Crimewave is still..

					    MAYOR
				  (toward Max)
			Jim...it's taken care of.  The
			only criminal we have to worry
			about is free-lance--Batman.

	Various people are in Batman and Catwoman outfits,
	including an undulating on the dance floor, Punch and
	Juliet.  Punch is Catwoman.  Juliet is Batman.  Both
	wear their trademark blazers.

					    PUNCH
			Juliet, I loved what you did with
			the penguin motif...

					    JULIET
			Wait a minute, Punch, I thought
			the penguins were your idea...

	Suddenly, the entrance to the club opens and Bruce Wayne
	struts through the fray, dressed dramatically as......
	BRUCE WAYNE.  The only one without a costume, Bruce
	catches some glares from the hedonists.  The viewer's
	viewpoint stays on a suited-up penguin, who takes a
	couple of baby steps and then stops.

	A batch of the other penguins begin to scurry around
	the club in a military drill, then all stop at once.

	Bruce angrily moves toward Max.  Max looks up to make,
	at first pleasant, then noticing Bruce's expression,
	tense and confused eye contact.

	Bruce's attention is diverted, upward.  Starkly coming
	down a deco-steel staircase in the middle of the club,
	from a catwalk dance area is Selina Kyle dramatically
	dressed as...SELINA KYLE.  They give each other world-
	weary smiles.

	INT. THE CLUB--NIGHT

	ARMORED ALFRED curiously moves forward to watch this
	imminent meeting.  A couple of penguins imitate his
	movements.  As in the opening scene, Alfred feels it
	and turns around.  They stop.

	INT. THE CLUB--DANCE FLOOR--NIGHT

	The enigmatic band goes into a chilling ballad as Selina
	comes off the stairs and flows into Bruce's arms.  They
	nakedly dance amid the swathed-in-artifice Revelers.

					    BRUCE
			I guess we were right about the
			Relighting of the Tree.  Rowdy.

					    SELINA
			Thank God, we weren't there.

					    BRUCE
			Yeah, schwoof.  Nice costume.

					    SELINA
			Thanks.  I guess I'm tired of
			wearing masks in front of people.

	Selina goes in and out of a slow sultry pirouette.

					    BRUCE
			I know the feeling.  I've done a
			lot of good things for the
			community.  Ignored a lot of bad
			thinks, like my friend and your
			boss.  I'm taking Max down.  As
			Bruce Wayne.

					    SELINA
			Selina Kyle has always suffered
			and complained about her problems.
			I want to be the one to cause
			problems, so I'm taking Max down,
			too.

	Selina displays from her pocket, a derringer.  Bruce
	pushes it back into her pocket in shock.

	INT. THE CLUB--NIGHT

	ALFRED AND COMMISSIONER GORDON beam at Bruce and Selina
	as if they were Mickey Rooney and Judy Garland.  The
	penguins move in closer.

					    GORDON
			Make a darling couple.

					    ALFRED
			Yes.  She's a real sweetie.

	INT. THE SEWER BELOW THE CLUB--EVENING 

	The spooky ballad of the ball wafts into a sewer below
	the club.  The lights of the club beat through the bars
	of a ventilator shaft.  Into this haunting mixture of
	music, light, and slime come the wheels of Penguin's
	closed Scissor-Lift apparatus.

	INT. THE CLUB DANCE FLOOR--NIGHT

	Bruce and Selina continue to dance, emotions rising.

					    SELINA
			Don't give me any killing-Max-
			won't-solve-anything crap, because
			it will.  He's the soul of Gotham
			City.  He...

					    BRUCE
			Guess he gives that speech to
			everybody.  What are you doing,
			quit screeching the wacko
			platitudes and put your toy
			away.  Who do you think you are,
			Selina?

					    SELINA
				  (genuinely sad)
			I don't know, Bruce.  I don't...

	Bruce and Selina go in and out of a kiss, passing beneath
	A GIANT PAPIER MACHE LEAF OF MISTLETOE.

					    SELINA
			A kiss under the mistletoe?  Did
			you know mistletoe is poisonous,
			if you eat it?

					    BRUCE
			But a kiss is deadlier, if you
			mean it.

	Their eyes pop out in horror.  Out of stunned disbelief,
	they continue to sway.

	INT. THE SEWER--NIGHT

	The Dwarves crank up the Scissor lift.  The viewer's
	viewpoint looks to the bottom of the rising apparatus;
	its passengers still a mystery.

	INT. THE CLUB DANCE FLOOR--NIGHT

	To the rhythm of the band's dark lullaby, Bruce slowly,
	tenderly, carefully undoes the cuff of Selina's blouse
	and begins to pull it back on her arm.

	Selina, meanwhile, softly tugs Bruce's shirt into an
	untucked position.

	One of the passing penguins crashes against Alfred's
	armor.

					    ALFRED
			Ah ha, I knew it.

					    GORDON
			What the...

	Gordon furrows down to the moving penguin then looks out
	to see that the squadron of penguins have taken an
	ominously symmetrical position around the party.

	Bruce and Selina take suspenseful gulps, not daring to
	halt their last waltz.  Bruce pulls back the blouse cuff
	to reveal that nasty burn mark he gave her with his
	chemicals.  At the same bonesizzling moment, Selina pulls
	up Bruce's shirt to reveal the puncture holes she gave
	him with her talons.  They savagely push off from each
	other with uncivilized snarls.

					    SELINA
			"City takes a lot of you.  I was
			running around all night.."  Look
			at you, all along the ultimate
			defender of an insane society.

					    BRUCE
			You'll have to forgive me, Miss "I
			don't want to wear masks anymore."
			I sure know how to pick 'em; a
			self-ish destructing psycho-
			feline...Shall we?

	Bruce and Selina charge toward each other when suddenly,
	the penguins drop their capes, revealing varying self-
	perpetuating arsenals strapped to their backs.  Some have
	a Gatling machine gun apparatus, others have flamethrowers.
	A HUGE (but non-gray bellied) PENGUIN lifts one of his
	wings and fires a line of thin missiles into the middle
	of the dance floor...where they brutally explode, sending
	Bruce, Selina, and the other Dancers, convulsing to the
	ground.  Erupting out of the floor's burning hole is
	Penguin's Rubber Duck buggy souped-up as a Christmas
	sleigh with Penguin in a beardless Santa outfit and A
	PACK OF RED TRIANGLE CIRCUS COHORTS WEARING ANTLERS.

					    PENGUIN
			Mer-ry Chri-istmas!  A party?  For
			me?  You gu-uys!

	Missiles and bullets are thundered on the exits by the
	penguin terrorists.  The Security Gladiators are incapa-
	citated by flamethrower firepower.  The guests futilely
	shriek, vibrate, and faint in their inability to flee.

	Schmoozer-from-hell Penguin hops off the sleigh and soft-
	shoes by various trembling-in-fear Partygoers, on his way
	to the eggnog and caviar, which he graphically engulfs.
	He looks down to a fluttering on the ground SEXY WOMAN.

					    PENGUIN
				  (romantically)
			Come here often?  What do you say
			we blow this shallow ritual and
			just go somewhere and just...I
			don't know, I'm feeling kinda
			kooky...

	INT. OTHER PART OF THE CLUB--NIGHT

	Antlered Henchmen clutch upon Max, Punch, Juliet, the
	Mayor, and his jingling staff, dragging them toward the
	sleigh.

	Bruce aches up and savagely clotheslines a passing Antler
	Thug.

	INT. PENGUIN'S PART OF THE CLUB--NIGHT

	An anguished Max Shreck is carried past a giddy Penguin.

					    PENGUIN
			Max, my man, and I thought you
			were the designated driver.  But
			seriously, you're an ugly pig and
			I'm going to love slaughtering
			you.  New Mask?  Love it!

	INT. OTHER PART OF THE CLUB--NIGHT

	The strange headgear atop their heads wildly whirring,
	the Penguins continue to commando-wobble the club
	jubilantly destroying Christmas decoration with spewing
	artillery.  The wires of the giant hanging Mache Mistle-
	toe leaf are shot away, causing it to drop, beside a
	writhing on the floor Selina.

	Seeing this, Bruce spins to the offending penguin and
	sears out a karate kick that somersaults the penguin
	against a wall.  Seeing this, an attacking Antler Thug
	lunges after Bruce.  Commissioner Gordon slams him to
	the ground with his Viking shield.

	INT. PENGUIN'S PART OF THE CLUB--NIGHT

	Penguin grooves on the dance floor to the sounds of
	screams, then goes into a mock serious conversation mode,
	chatting down to a young floorbound woman, who is dressed
	as ALICE IN WONDERLAND.

					    PENGUIN
			Christmas is just getting so
			commericalized, don't you think?

					    ALICE
			Ugh....ah...don't...

					    PENGUIN
			Those are valid points, but you
			know, every year I still somehow
			get that warm feeling....Yuck!
			Not enough Nog.

	Penguin spits out a load of eggnog, then splashes the
	rest of the cup down into Alice's coughing face.

					    PENGUIN
			Yes Virginia, there is an
			Anti-christ.

	Penguin flips his cup over his head, smashing onto the
	armored chest of a crouching Alfred.  Penguin bounds up
	into his Duck sleigh as Max, Punch, Juliet, the Mayor,
	and his Staff are packed in along with various Antlered
	Thugs and penguins.

					    PENGUIN
			Oh but really, I have to go.  New
			Year's at my place!
				  (seriously)
			I'd never been to a Christmas
			party before.  It didn't have to
			be like this.  Then again maybe it
			did.

	The Sleigh swooshes back down into the hole.

	Bruce disengages the headgear from the booted and woozy
	penguin and storms up.  He bolts to the Mistletoe Leaf
	and slides it away.  Selina is gone.  Alfred clangs up
	beside him.

					    ALFRED
			There's only one place a man could
			keep so many penguins...

					    BRUCE
			The Old Zoo.  Batcave first...

					    ALFRED
			But the Batmobile can't possibly...

					    BRUCE
			Batcave.

	EXT. THE OLD ZOO--NIGHT

	Swathed back in his malevolent black coat, Penguin does
	a Schwartzkopf strut before a vast legion of penguins.
	The penguins stand in symmetrical attention, each with
	three awesome bombs strapped to its back and the familiar
	headgear on its head.

					    PENGUIN
			Penguins, we stand at the
			threshold of Something.  It's okay
			to be scared.  Many of you won't
			be coming back, many of you don't
			understand a word I'm saying...but
			before your transistor headgear
			takes you away, remember, winning
			isn't everything, but killing a
			lot of people and destroying a lot
			of property is way up there.  The
			liberation of Gotham City has
			begun!

	In drill fashion, the penguin Army splits into two
	divisions; each division swarming into separate Sewer
	pipes.

	INT. A SEWER--NIGHT

	All is quiet in a foggy, musty sewer.  A buzzing noise
	can be faintly heard, when suddenly Batman plows at the
	viewer, driving a sleek, dark vehicle that is part boat,
	part jet-ski.  The Bat Boat whooshes up and down the
	sides of the sewer.

	INT. THE LAIR--NIGHT

	Max, the Mayor, his staff, Punch, and Juliet have been
	stuffed into the Lair's dirty animal cage, stripped to
	their underwear.

	The Lair hsa been slicked up for full operation.  The
	windexed TV screens and the glistening control panel are
	showing shots of Gotham City and Gotham Square.  Penguin
	comes off his coaster.

					    PENGUIN
			I always say the opera isn't over
			until the fat lady comes off
			stage, cuts open your stomach, and
			shows you your intestines.  You
			saw how easily I took your
			guardian angel Batman and made him
			look like a filthy demon.  Wait
			till you see what I have planned
			for the rest of Gotham's pilgrims.

					    MAYOR
			You'll never get away with...

					    PENGUIN
				  (pressing button)
			Of course I will....please.  Let's
			start with a little stocking
			stuffer.  I find a good blackout
			gets everybody's juices flowing,
			don't you?

	EXT. THE SEEDY ELECTRICAL POWERHOUSE--NIGHT

	Dwarf One and Dwarf Two have big beepers on their suits
	go off.  They hasten through the gasping and sparking
	complex, before coming to a striking and charismatic RED
	BOX, the soul of the complex, the only thing of the
	powerhouse that looks like it is from this century.  They
	tug loose eight computerized fuses.

	EXT. GOTHAM PLAZA--NIGHT

	The lights of Gotham Square go dead except for some
	strategically creepy lighting.  The INNOCENTS ON THE
	STREET brake with fluttering hearts, getting very nervous.

	EXT. THE SEEDY POWERHOUSE--NIGHT

	Dwarf Two shouts into a walkie-talkie.

					    DWARF TWO
			Phase completed!

	Suddenly a Catwoman claw slams both Dwarves down.

	INT. THE LAIR--NIGHT

	Penguin cackles into a Mission Control microphone.  The
	screens show fearful Gothamites and Penguins marching
	through the sewers.

					    PENGUIN
			Great!  And sorry for calling you
			Shorty.
				  (to his prisoners)
			I know what you're saying "Ooh, a
			blackout.  Big whoop.  What's
			next, crank phone calls?"  Don't
			worry, I won't let you down.

	INT. A SEWER OF PENGUINS--NIGHT

	A division of penguin Commando Bombers motivate in unison
	through a sewer passage.  Their headgear clicks and
	whirs.

	EXT. GOTHAM CITY STREET 

	Another squardon of the penguin mercenaries gush out from
	an open sewer grate and continue to march in eerie form-
	ation through a deserted but placidly pretty city street.

	INT. THE SEWER OF BATMAN--NIGHT

	The Bat Boat slaloms the curved sewer sides, past the
	explosions and the penguins.  Batman flicks out the card
	the Kid gave him.

	INT. THE KID'S GARAGE--NIGHT

	The Kid hangs an ornament on his shabby worktable
	Christmas tree.  On the ornament is a picture of two
	people who must be his PARENTS.  Cold air wafts in from
	his shattered garage door.

					    THE KID
				  (grimly)
			Merry Christmas......Well, at
			least I got to meet Batman and...

	A rickety rotary phone rings.  The Kid picks up.

	INT. THE SEWER OF BATMAN--NIGHT

	Batman sternly articulates through a strange phone device
	attached to his motoring ahead Sewermobile.

					    BATMAN
			The object you stole from me.
			You're going to need it.

	INT. THE GARAGE--NIGHT

	The Kid goes into sheepish distress.

					    THE KID
			Batman, uh, what a pleasant...It's
			been too long...thing I stole?
			I'm a blank, uh, and I don't think
			I like the accusation, I mean...

	INT. THE SEWER OF BATMAN--NIGHT

	Batman tensely enunciates.

					    BATMAN
			The pinwheel-shaped descrambler.
			That you borrowed.  Get it out.
			Now.

	INT. THE GARAGE--NIGHT

	The Kid rustles out the object from a shoebox.

					    THE KID
			Oh, the pinwheel-shaped descrambler
			that I borrowed...Why didn't you
			say...

	INT. THE SEWER OF BATMAN--NIGHT

	Batman remains calm.

					    BATMAN
			Look out your window and tell me
			if you see penguin Bombers coming
			out of your sewer main.

	INT. THE GARAGE--NIGHT

	The Kid reaches out to a worktable curtain.

					    THE KID
			Penguin bomb--?  Is this a--?
			Should really lay off the Batnog.
			Man, hope you're not driv--Whoa...

	The Kid pulls back the curtain and bulges to see penguin
	commandos bubble out a sewer main like ants on a dead
	beetle.

	INT. THE SEWER OF BATMAN--NIGHT

	Batman calms the Kid down, almost amused.

					    BATMAN
			Okay, okay, calm down.  Here's
			what you're going to do....hold
			on...

	Five swimming penguins suddenly appear before Batman,
	firing their payloads.  Batman savagely curls his boat
	all the way up the oval pipe until he is momentarily
	completely upside down.  He swooshes back down past the
	penguins and the resulting explosions.

	Batman takes out the headgear he took off the penguin at
	the club.  It has been opened up to reveal its techno-
	logical origins.

					    BATMAN
			As I was saying...

	INT. THE LAIR--NIGHT

	Penguin dances about the control panel, watching his
	little namesakes taking the street.

					    BESPECTACLED CREEP
			First launch has been programmed
			to commence in thirty seconds.

	EXT. GOTHAM STREET LEADING TO PLAZA--NIGHT

	One of the penguin divisions stops.  Gotham Plaza looms
	ahead.

	EXT. ANOTHER STREET--NIGHT

	The other squadron stops.  Another view of the Plaza
	can be seen.

	EXT. GOTHAM STREET LEADING TO PLAZA--NIGHT

	One of the bombs on each of the halted penguins' backs
	smoothly fulminates and arcs up into the air.

	EXT. GOTHAM PLAZA--NIGHT

	Pinpoint explosions detonate over and into the Plaza like
	a Wrath-of-God case of the measels.

	Architecture erupts with idiosyncratic hits that damage,
	but do not destroy.  The beleaguered Citizens return
	to screaming, running, Godzillaesque madness.

	EXT. OUTSIDE THE GARAGE--NIGHT

	Bathed in Gotham flames, The Kid wrangles upon a bike,
	punching in coordinate numbers into the black, pinwheel
	object.

					    THE KID
			I'll never steal anything again.
			I'll never steal anything...
			especially descramblers.

	He attaches the pinwheel object to his belt and presses
	a button in its middle.  The pinwheel starts to spin.

	EXT. GOTHAM STREET LEADING TO PLAZA--NIGHT

	THE REGIMENT OF PENGUINS.  The headgear ensconsed upon
	the penguins begin to whine and rattle like changing
	Airport terminal boards.  The penguins simultaneously
	turn and trot away from the Plaza.

	INT. THE LAIR--NIGHT

	Penguin belches out fraternity-size squawks taking in the
	smoke, fury, and wails of the Gotham City carnage on the
	screen.  The Mayor glowers at Max Shreck, who shrugs his
	shoulder.

					    PENGUIN
			Oh Max, it don't get much better
			than this...

	Penguin convulses into laughter so fierce that he rolls
	to the ground.  He looks up to Max through the bars of
	the cage.  He stops laughing as the music from his
	birth in the opening wrestles control of the soundtrack.
	The sight of a horrified Max in an undershirt through the
	bars recalls the one of the horrified, undershirted
	Angelic Child looking to his caged mutant brother.

					    PENGUIN
				  (poignantly)
			"Honey, don't stare at your
			brother."
				  (unconvincing
				   laugh-it-off)
			Geez, Max, for a second there, I
			thought...

					    MAX
			I am.  Your brother, that is.

	EXT. GOTHAM STREET--NIGHT

	The pinwheel spinning on his belt, the Kid pumps his bike
	down a city street.  Suddenly the two giant divisions of
	penguins magnificently converge out of two side streets
	and march together behind the increasingly weirded-out
	Kid.

					    THE KID
			Oh man...Batman.
				  (nervous snort of
				   laughter)
			I hate him.

	INT. THE LAIR--NIGHT

	Uncharacteristically chilled and shivering, Penguin rises
	as Max contemptuously spills their heritage.

					    MAX
			I liked the idea of a brother.
			Playing catch.  Measles.  Double
			dates.  Did not quite work out,
			did it?  God, I remember the
			first time I looked at you in
			that playpen--those eyes, that
			nose...I always wondered why Mom
			and Dad waited a whole week before
			throwing you down the sewer.

					    MAYOR
			Thanks, Max.  Way to talk him out
			of destroying the city.

					    MAX
			All along, all this time, you've
			been just a poor little rich boy,
			an incredibly hideous poor little
			rich boy, who just wants to go
			back to his Mummy, his Daddy, and
			the legitimacy of his family name.
			Did not quite work out, did it?

					    PENGUIN
				  (softly)
			It's cold in here...

	INT. THE SEWER--NIGHT

	The BABY CARRIAGE THAT PENGUIN'S PARENTS DISPATCHED HIM
	IN lies weathered and rusted in a pool of ooze.  The
	rocketing Bat Boat uncompassionately whams the carriage
	to pieces, cutting off the soundtrack birth music.

	INT. THE LAIR--NIGHT

	Penguin roars out of his sadness, toward the Mission
	Control.

					    PENGUIN
			You don't get it!  I don't need
			you!  You won't let me come to you
			so I'm bringing the city down to
			me!  Penguins are set to fire their
			payloads in how many seconds...

					    BESPECTACLED CREEP
				  (frantically
				   punching)
			Well, uh, funny thing is....Those
			penguins, they're not responding
			so good.  They're kind of turned
			around...Seems somebody jammed our
			signals and...

					    LURID SNAKE WOMAN IN GLASSES
			You think that's bad, take a look
			at this...

	She punches up the controls so the image of Batman plowing
	through the sewers is spread out across the screens.  The
	prisoners burst into cheers.

					    PENGUIN
			....Why?  Why?  What does he get
			out of doing this?

					    MAYOR
			I always knew Batman would come
			through for us.

	The Elder Penguins simultaneously turn their gray bellies
	and sagely retreat back into the darkness of the back of
	the Lair.

					    PENGUIN
			Elders...Elders, come back!  What
			does your departure at this
			tumultuous...I don't wanna know....

	Penguin dashes toward his rollercoaster track.

	EXT. A HILL--NIGHT

	The Kid heaves and sweats his bike up a hill, the
	penguins puttering behind him.  A popping and hissing
	noise is heard.  The Kid angrily pivots off his bike to
	check the flat.  The vast penguin army calmly stop with
	him.

					    THE KID
			Oh man...

	The Kid throws down the bike and breaks into a jog.
	The penguins chug behind him.  The Kid lopes to the top
	of the hill.  The Old Zoo looms in the distance.

	INT. THE LAIR--NIGHT

	Clown Gunmen load their weapons while buzzing toward the
	Lair's gaping pipe in the motorized Rubber Duck sleigh
	boat.  Also in the boat, the Sword Swallower pulls a
	rifle from his mouth.  They raise their weapons to the
	pipe as the Bat Boat fantastically erupts through the
	grate and violently slams down upon the Rubber Duck hit
	team.

	Penguin frantically runs inplace by the rollercoaster.

					    PENGUIN
			Where are these damn carts when
			you need them...

	A cart, also shaped as a Duck, finally rolls by.  Penguin
	dives in.

	Batman curls the Bat Module toward the Mission Control
	island.  He fires off a flurry of machine gun fire that
	tears apart the screens and sends Penguin's henchpeople
	flying.  The Lurid Snake Charmer woman cries down to her
	two shot-to-death pythons.

	The Bat Boat dramatically charges up onto the island.
	Batman bounds out and gives a glance to the rumbling away
	Penguin.

					    PUNCH AND JULIET
			Batman!  Save us!

					    BATMAN
			Later.
				  (regarding Max)
			Much.

	Batman turns back toward his Boat.  A CREEP WITH A HUGE
	RING OF KEYS PIERCED INTO HIS NOSE charges him.  Lowering
	himself, Batman grabs from underneath the charging thug
	and fiercely shotputs his body into a resounding crash
	next to the cage.

	Batman vaults in his boat and spins it toward the tunnel
	of Snow and Ice......while Max reaches down to the ring
	of keys.

	Just as Batman reaches the tunnel, his Bat Module sprouts
	out FOUR STALWART SKI LEGS.  He thunders up the tunnel.

	Penguin's prisoners scramble out of the cage and pull
	themselves into their clothes.

	EXT. THE OLD ZOO AREA--NIGHT

	Penguin swerves his cart off the track and bulldozes
	through the snow, with the forces of fiery boosters, to
	the nearby, buzzing Electrical Set-up.  Penguin slams
	down a huge switch.

	The Gaudy Bulbs of the zoo and its rollercoaster come
	violently to light with most of the ancient fixtures
	harshly exploding.  Shoddy fallen wires drop upon the
	cages like angry snakes.

	Batman storms from the tunnel and immediately blitzes
	Penguin who, with a desperate but not uneuphoric laugh,
	thunders off in his cart.  Penguin maniacally weaves
	through the cages and rotted exhibits with a bit more
	expertise than the equally intense Batman.  Dilapidated
	Lit sculptures crackle and explode.

	EXT. OLD ZOO GROUNDS--OUTSIDE THE LAIR--NIGHT

	The Mayor and his bell jingling staff, along with Punch
	and Juliet, belly up from the tunnel and scatter off.
	Max emerges up from the cave in more stately fashion
	until a cat o' nine tails whip wraps and rips him off-
	screen.

	EXT. THE OLD ZOO GROUNDS--NIGHT

	Penguin snarls out a hairpin turn.  Batman slams through
	a strange piece of decrepit zoo architecture and does a
	dangerous snow churning spin into the railing of an
	ominous animal pit, almost flying into the abyss.

	Penguin makes another turn, caterwauling back to Batman
	with a victorious laugh.  Turning around, his monocle
	drops.  Standing at overpowering attention, in front of
	Penguin, is THE KID AND THE STERN FACE LEGION OF PENGUIN
	COMMANDOS.

					    PENGUIN
			My babies...

	Batman and his Ski-boat sallies forth behind Penguin and
	then stops to witness the confrontation with a half-smile.

	The Kid turns off the pinwheel object.  Suddenly, back
	on schedule, the penguins launch out the rest of their
	payload.

	What is left of rundown cages and the decayed Expo-
	tecture is mightily laid to glorious waste in a symphony
	of fireballs.  The Ratty Poodle transforms into a smoking
	crater.

	Bombs bursting holes of black in the snow beside him,
	Penguin wildly retreats.  Batman vrooms after him.

	Penguin's cart charges back upon the track of the
	smoking, but intact rollercoaster.  It rumbles upward.

	Batman squeals his Ski-boat to a stop and vaults off it.
	The Kid rushes up and flips him the pinwheel object.

					    THE KID
			Guess I won't be needing to borrow
			the descrambler anymore.  At least
			not for a while...We save the city
			or what?

					    BATMAN
			Getting there.  I owe you two.
			Got a name?

					    THE KID
			Yeah.....but I like to be
			called...Robin...

					    BATMAN
			Nice name...Oh Robin...

	When Batman turns back around, the Kid, ROBIN, is gone.
	Batman smiles at the utilization of one of his own traits.
	Losing the smile, Batman fires up a grapple to a high
	echelon of rollercoaster track.  He swooshes upward.

	EXT. THE ROLLERCOASTER--NIGHT

	Penguin's rollercoaster cart ramshackles upward, its
	passenger giving feverish looks down below to see if he
	is being chased.  He distraughtly stares to the beauti-
	ful image of Batman gliding up in air before him,
	glimmering in the moonlight.

	Batman unhooks out of his grapple levitation and drops
	down into Penguin's passing-beneath cart.

	Penguin tries to point his umbrella.  Batman bats it out
	of his hand as he rides the cart standing up.  He meth-
	odically pummels Penguin, resembling a boy punishing a
	terry bear.

					    BATMAN
			You're so small and cuddly and
				  (in syncopation with
				   punches)
			So.  Much.  Fun.  To.  Beat.

					    PENGUIN
			Oh come on, cut it out.  This is
			so mature....You're not still mad
			at me for ruining your rep and
			trashing your car, are you?

	Batman gears up for a last savage blow when the roller-
	coaster makes a sudden swerve that sends Batman and
	Penguin crunching out the back of the car and onto the
	track.

	Penguin reaches to his heel and pulls out a HAND
	UMBRELLA.  He wobbles upward with a sweaty, shaky, and
	pathetically fierce confidence.  Batman crouches into a
	kneel to face him.  Penguin shoves in his bent-up
	cigarette holder.

					    PENGUIN
			All I ever wanted was the love of
			my fellow man and their painful
			destruction.

					    BATMAN
			I understand.  I protect the
			people of Gotham City.  From
			themselves.  That means I must
			love.  And despise.  I must be
			the Light.  And the Dark.

					    PENGUIN
			Oh, stall for time, much....Life
			is scary.  You're a man who wants
			to be a bat, I'm a freaky bird who
			wants to be a man.  Did you know
			that I found out tonight that Max
			Shreck is my brother.  Can you
			believe that?

	Batman snorts, then laughs.  Slowly.  Deeply.  Penguin
	contorts in a wild cackle of camaraderie.

					    PENGUIN
			Hey, I wonder what Catwoman's deal
			was?

					    BATMAN
			Actually, she's my girlfriend...

	Batman and Penguin roar even louder.

					    PENGUIN
			You know, we could talk all night
			about why we do what we do, why we
			dress the way we do, who had the
			best childhood trauma, who got the
			worst genes, who's the real
			monster, and what's truly
			human...But hey, in the end it all
			comes down to who's holding the
			umbrella....Any last words?

					    BATMAN
			Yes.  Just two.  Laser Bunny.

	Batman pitches out one of the little orange sirening
	transistors that Penguin used to hypnotize the pigeons
	into the police cars.  The buzzing orange beacon
	attaches itself onto Penguin's coat.

	EXT. THE BATBOAT ON THE GROUNDS BELOW--NIGHT

	Suddenly, an INSANE TRIBE OF BATS billow out of break-
	a-way panels on the Batboat.  They thunder upward to
	the.....

	EXT. THE ROLLERCOASTER--NIGHT

	A freaking Penguin tears off his coat and hot potatoes
	it away.

					    PENGUIN
			I see you brought the whole family
			I'm sure once you get to know
			them...

	Resurrecting up, Batman calmly lobs another orange
	siren-transistor onto Penguin's back at a spot where
	Penguin hysterically flaps to reach but can't.

					    PENGUIN
			I need some famous last words.
			You gotta give me time for some
			famous last words...."Death...is
			like..."

	The black cloud of bats beseige Penguin, biting and
	screeching and battering him off the rollercoaster track.

	The isolated accessory of his bid for respect--his
	monocle--falls and cracks on the ground.

	Penguin's bat-bit body dive-bombs into the rambling Duck
	rollercoaster cart on a track below.

	The force of Penguin's crash landing sends the cart
	sparking on its side.

					    PENGUIN
			"Death is like...."

	INT. THE LAIR--NIGHT

	The cart skids into the Lair, screeching and tipping.  It
	and Penguin make an epic crash landing that completely
	demolishes the Mission Control panel, sending the Lair
	into darkness.  The darkness that the Lair greeted Penguin
	when he was a baby.

	EXT. THE ROLLERCOASTER--NIGHT

	From his gloriously elevated track-top position, Batman
	stares out to see Catwoman dragging Max into the grand,
	sparking electrical power center.

	INT. THE LAIR HIDEOUT--NIGHT

	With a zombie face, Penguin crawls from the rubble of
	rollercoaster into a patch of light.

	EXT. THE GROUNDS BEFORE THE ELECTRICAL PHALANX--NIGHT

	Revealed in her now tattered but still arousing gear,
	Catwoman pulls and drags a pussycatwhipped but still cool
	Max by his neck, through the wild, buzzing electrical
	complex.

					    MAX
			I don't know who you are, but
			there must be something you like.
			I can get it for you, Catwoman.
			Money, jewelry, a very big ball of
			string...

					    CATWOMAN
			Your blood, Max.  I'd like to have
			your blood.

					    MAX
			Pint?

					    CATWOMAN
			Gallons.

	Catwoman flicks forth the familiarly unique stun gun in
	her free hand and gives Max a wee shot that causes him
	to grimace.

					    BATMAN (O.S.)
			Stop.

	Catwoman and Max do, the latter dropping to his knees.

					    CATWOMAN
			Batman, here to save the day.

					    MAX
			Batman!  You are remarkable!
			Again, you're not just saving one
			life, you're saving the whole of....

					    BATMAN
			Shut up, Max.  You're not going to
			be killed.  But you are going to
			be punished.

					    MAX
			But you don't understand.  I'm the
			soul of...

					    BATMAN
			I've heard.  Gotham's getting a
			transplant.

					    CATWOMAN
			Don't be naive.  When people like
			Max say "Jump", we say "Out the
			window or off the rollercoaster?"
			The law does not apply...

	Batman takes a step forward.  Catwoman lightly zaps Max,
	then smashes the gun to the ground, cracking it in two.
	She launches into a fierce cartwheel that ends in
	Batman's abdomen.

					    CATWOMAN
				  (genuinely pleading)
			Please, please...don't make me
			hurt you.  You can't control me.

					    BATMAN
			Don't make me fight back.  I can't
			control myself.

	Catwoman slashes out with her talons, nicking Batman's
	face.  Batman pivots and punches her side.  They both
	sneer in pain and anger and love.

	Max frantically crawls to the dispatched Dwarf One's
	body and pulls a six shooter from the small man's belt.

	Batman and Catwoman stalk each other, almost spitting
	their words.

					    BATMAN
			You've been surrounded by monsters.
			Now you've become one.  Bad move.

					    CATWOMAN
			Oh, now you tell me...

	Catwoman charges forward again.  Batman sweeps his leg,
	tripping her to the ground.

					    BATMAN
			I've seen the middle ground--funny,
			beautiful, wonderfully rude...

					    MAX
				  (rising up)
			What is he talking abou--

					    BATMAN
			I love you, Selina.

	Catwoman springs up and points her talons into Batman's
	neck.

					    CATWOMAN
			I could live with you in your
			castle for ever after, just like
			the fairy tale.  I just couldn't
			live with myself.  I love you, too,
			Bruce.  But don't pretend this is
			a happy ending.

	Catwoman leans forward for a kiss, but instead gives
	Batman a head-butt that causes him to stumble backward.

					    MAX
			Selina, Selina Kyle!  You're fired!
			Bruce, Bruce Wayne!  You're my
			friend!  I'm going to kill you all!

					    CATWOMAN
			Don't flatter yourself.  You're
			not very good at it.

	Max fires into Batman's neck, sending him into a pained
	crouch, then swings the gun toward sauntering forward
	Catwoman.

					    CATWOMAN
			You killed me once.  Batman killed
			me once.  Penguin killed me once.
			I have six lives left.  And you
			only have five bullets.

	Max fires two shots.  One rips into her arm.  The other
	into her leg.  She takes off her mask, not stopping.

					    SELINA
			Four, five.  Still alive.

	Selina bends down and picks up the top half of the stun
	gun.  She continues to yawn forward as Max shoots her
	other arm, her other leg, and her stomach.

					    SELINA
			Six, seven, eight.  Who do we
			appreciate?  Still one life left.
			How about a last kiss, Santey Claus?

	Selina hobbles forward as Max rapidly clicks the empty
	gun.  She shoves the sparking stun gun-half into her mouth
	like an alien retainer and puts her arms around Max as he
	feebly attempts to duck down to the other dwarf's gun.

	She plunges her steel talons into the eight holes of the
	charismatic red fusebox and gives Max a stunning kiss!
	Their bodies buck together, turning into glowing, bolts
	of lightning.  Catlike screams of almost-happiness fill
	the air.

					    BATMAN
			No!

	Batman is hammered back to the ground by the bellowing
	sparkage.

	EXT. GOTHAM PLAZA--NIGHT 

	The lights of Gotham City and Gotham Square flash back
	on!  And off.  On and off.

	The Bat Beacon spookily slams on and off against the sky.

	The lights of the grand Christmas Tree flash on to an
	almost brilliant degree.  Seeing this, the faces of the
	beleagured Gotham Square beam out in a happiness of equal
	brilliance.

	EXT. THE ELECTRICAL COMPLEX--NIGHT

	Batman bounds up after the current conducting Selina, but
	a hand slaps down on his shoulder.  It is Alfred's.
	Batman stops.

	INT. THE DARK LAIR--NIGHT

	Penguin rolls on his back and stares up to the sound of
	Catwoman's haunting wails.

					    PENGUIN
			Catwoman...."Death is like...this."

	Penguin finishes his sentence and probably his life with
	a painfully realistic squawk.  As in birth, as in death,
	the Four Elder Emperor penguins surround their fallen
	disciple in the nostalgic darkness of the lair.  Like
	otherly kingdom Pallbearers, the gray bellied penguins
	lift Penguin up with their beaks and sadly trod him back
	into the darkness.

	EXT. GOTHAM PLAZA--NIGHT

	The bat beacon light, the city lights, and the Christmas
	tree lights continue to flash out in wondrous syncopation.
	The Carolers begin singing again.

	Now openly rejoicing at the symbolically glorious light
	show, Gothamites of all shapes and sizes move together
	and link hands.  Santa Claus holds the hand of the
	Adorable Little Girl as the Carolers boom out.  The All-
	American Family--Dad, Mom, and Son--clutching his Batman
	sled, lock together.

	EXT. STREET CORNER--NIGHT

	Punch and Juliet pant up to a street corner.

					    JULIET
			Oh Punch, we have the best job.
			No matter how mighty our clients
			rise and fall, we stay deliciously
			the same.

					    PUNCH
			You're right, you're always right.
			...I hear the Riddler is hiring.

					    JULIET
			Baby, Fate is our friend.

	Juliet begins to soprano out the Carolers' song as she
	presses the street corner's Walk/Don't Walk button.

	INT. PENGUIN'S BARREN HEADQUARTERS--NIGHT

	The Scoreboard in Penguin's headquarters goes to
	17,000/17,000.

	EXT. THE STREET CORNER--NIGHT

	Punch and Juliet blow up.

	THE WAYNE ROLLS-ROYCE--NIGHT

	zips past the explosion.  Batman and a driving Alfred
	are crammed together in the front seat.  Batman soulfully
	blinks at the passing ball of fire.

	EXT. CITY HALL--NIGHT

	The Rolls rumbles past the steps of City Hall where The
	Mayor, his staff, and Commissioner Gordon, out of their
	costumes, come out to reflect up to the flashing bat
	signal.

					    GORDON
			Think he'll ever forgive us?

					    MAYOR
				  (matured)
			Probably not.  But he'll always
			help us.

	EXT./INT. THE WAYNE ROLLS-ROYCE--NIGHT

	putters by the line of beaming citizens.  Batman gives
	off a snort and cynical smile to the rejoicing minions.

					    BATMAN
			I guess this means we won.

	Alfred slams on the brakes.  The car lurches to a halt
	just avoiding hitting Selina's cat, smugly sauntering
	across the road.

	EXT. THE ELEGANT PLAZA CLOCK--NIGHT

	starts tolling the chimes of midnight.

	INT. THE ROLLS--NIGHT

	starts up again.  Batman makes eye contact with Selina's
	cat.

					    ALFRED
			Sorry, sir and....Merry Christmas.

	Batman pulls off his mask, becoming a moving mixture of
	Man and Superman.  He looks up to the flashing on and off
	Bat signal.

					    BRUCE WAYNE
			Sure.

	THE BAT BEACON

	flashes slower and slower as the viewer's viewpoint of
	it moves closer and closer.  It suddenly stops flashing,
	leaving only the darkness of the night.

									   FADE OUT.

						THE END
