
                          THE STAR 
                            WARS


                       "THE STAR WARS"

                         May, 1973


                       Story Synopsis

                             BY

                        GEORGE LUCAS



                             A
                        LUCASFILM LTD.
                            FILM




                       THE STAR WARS

                            by

                       George Lucas


                     LUCASFILM LIMITED



                                              May, 1973



Deep Space.


The eerie blue-green planet of Aquilae slowly drifts
into view.  A small speck, orbiting the planet, glints 
in the light of a near by star.


Suddenly a sleek fighter-type spacecraft settles ominously 
into the foreground moving swiftly toward the orbiting 
speck.  Two more fighters silently maneuver into battle 
formation behind the first and then three more craft 
glide into view.  The orbiting speck is actually a 
gargantuan space fortress which dwarfs the approaching  
fighters.  Fuel pods are jettisoned.  The six fighters 
break off into a power dive attack on the huge fortress.
Lazer bolts streak from the fighters creating small 
explosions on the complex surface of the fort.  Return 
fire catches one of the fighters and it bursts into a  
million pieces.  Another of the craft plows into a gun 
emplacement jutting from the fortress causing a hideous 
series of chain reaction explosions.  The chaos of 
battle echoes through the vastness of space.


It is the thirty-third century, a period of civil wars 
in the galaxy.  A rebel princess, with her family, 
her retainers, and the clan treasure, is being pursued.  
If they can cross territory controlled by the Empire 
and reach a friendly planet, they will be saved.  The 
Sovereign knows this, and posts a reward for the capture 
of the princess.


She is being guarded by one of her generals, (Luke 
Skywalker) and it is he who leads her on the long and 
dangerous journey that follows.  They take along with 
them two hundred pounds of the greatly treasured "aura 
spice", and also two Imperial bureaucrats, whom the 
general has captured.


The two terrified, bickering bureaucrats crash land 
on Aquilae while trying to flee the battle of the 
space fortress.  They accidently discover a small 
container of the priceless "aura spice" and are rummaging 
around the rocks pushing and pulling each other trying 
to find more when they are discovered by Luke Skywalker 
and taken to his camp.


The princess and the general are disguised as farmers, 
and the bureaucrats join their party with the intention 
of stealing their "land speeder" and "aura spice". 
It doesn't take them too long to realize the general 
isn't a farmer and that they are captives about to 
embark on a dangerous mission.  The two bureaucrats 
are essentially comic relief inserted among the general 
seriousness of the adventure.


The small group in their sleek, white, two-man "land 
speeders" travel across the wastelands of Aquilae, 
headed for the space port city of Gordon, where they 
hope to get a spacecraft that will take them to the 
friendly planet of Ophuchi.


At a desolate rest stop, the rebels are stopped and 
questioned by an Imperial patrol.  Apparently satisfied, 
the captian lets the group continue on their way, but 
a short distance into the wilderness, they are attacked 
by the patrol.  The Imperial patrol of twelve men is no 
match for the incredibly skilled and powerful general, 
who makes short work of the enemy.


One of the two-man "speeders" is destroyed in the fight 
and the bureaucrats must ride on the back of the remaining 
one, which slows the group down considerably.  They 
drive into a storm, run low on food and water, but 
eventually make it to the ruin of a religious temple. 
In the temple they discover a rebel band of ten boys 
(aged 15 to 18) who are planning an attack on one of 
the Imperial outposts.  The boys laugh in anticipation 
of the blow they will strike the Empire in the name of 
the princess.  They all stop laughing, but the laughing 
continues and they look around in consternation.  Into 
the sanctuary ambles Skywalker, scratching himself, 
amused at the idealism of the youths.  He barely 
glances at them.  The contrast between the boy rebels 
with their terse nods, their meaningful glances, and 
Skywalker, a real general, a real man could not be 
greater.  The boys plead to join the party to protect 
the princess, but the general refuses, and insists 
they all return to their homes.  They say they have 
no place to go and begin to follow the party across 
the wasteland.


One night the party is attacked by one of the large 
beasts that roam the plains, and is eventually killed 
by the boy rebels.  The general reluctantly accepts 
the presence of the boys, and allows them to join 
the group.


The general, one of the bureaucrats, and one of the 
boys, venture into a shabby cantina on the outskirts 
of the space port, looking for the rebel contact who 
will help them get a spacecraft.  The murky little  
den is filled with a startling array of weird and 
erotic Aliens laughing and drinking at the bar.  The 
bureaucrat and the boy are both terrified as the general 
orders two drinks and questions the bartender about 
the rebel contact man.  A group of bullies begin to 
taunt and ridicule the boy.  Skywalker attempts to avoid 
a confrontation, but worse comes to worse, and he is 
forced to fight.  With a flash of light, his lazer 
sword is out.  An are lies on the ground, one of the 
bullies lies double, slashed from chin to groin and 
Skywalker, with quiet dignity, replaces his sword in  
its sheath.  The entire fight has lasted a matter of 
seconds.


Skywalker, the princess, and their party make contact 
with the rebel underground, but not before an Imperial 
spy, who followed them from the cantina, reports their 
plans to the city governor.  The rebels enter the 
space port to board a trader's ship, whose captain 
is friendly toward the rebels.  The group doesn't 
realize until it is too late, that it is a trap.  Guards 
pounce on them from everywhere.  The princess, the 
bureaucrats, and the boys run for a ship while Skywalker 
holds off the guards.  They narrowly escape in a stolen 
space fighter and lose themselves among the giant 
Imperial fleet looking for the rebels.


The general orbits his ship further and further away 
from the planet, until he feels it is safe to head out 
into deep space toward Ophuchi.  As he maneuvers to 
break out of orbit, a patrol craft hails the ship and 
requests to board and search her.  Skywalker trys to 
discourage them, but the patrol becomes suspicious. 
Skywalker makes a run for it and the patrol craft 
fires on them.  The rebels return the fire and destroy 
the patrol craft.  The stolen Imperial ship races toward 
the safety of deep space as twelve fighter craft converge 
on the destroyed patrol and give chase.


A raging air-to-air battle and chase begins which 
continues halfway across the galaxy.  The rebel boys 
shoot down many Imperial ships under the harsh and 
uncompromising instructions of the general.  A few of 
the boys are angered at his cold and relentless directions, 
although they grow to respect him when they begin to 
see the results of his training.  Their ship is hit 
several times and begins to break up, causing them 
to slow down.  They maneuver the crippled fighter to 
an asteroid in an attempt to hide from their pursuers.
The trick works, but as they resume their trek across 
the galaxy, the ship is rocked by a series of explosions 
and plummets toward the forbidden planet of Yavin.


Everyone jettisons safely away from the doomed craft 
before it explodes, and using rocket pack, slowly  
drift to the foreboding surface.  The general, the princess, 
the two bureaucrats with the "aura spice", and one of 
the rebel boys regroup and set up camp.  When only 
one other boy shows up, the group decides to split up.  
The general, princess, and bureaucrats head for what 
appears to be a city, while the two boys go off looking 
for their comrades.  They are watched by a giant furry 
Alien, who quietly disappears into the foliage.


Skywalker and his party race along a narrow pathway 
riding "jet-sticks" fashioned from their rescue packs.  
They round a bend and see the way is blocked by three 
or four Aliens, riding large bird-like creatures.  The 
general instantly changes direction on to a side path, 
the others follow close behind, chased by the Aliens.  
Skywalker drops behind the others and begins shooting 
at the Aliens with his lazer gun.  The Aliens sling a 
dart-like object at Skywalker as they rush along the 
road.  The general kills the last Alien just as he 
reaches the gate to the Alien camp.  Skywalker cannot 
curb his "jet-stick" in time and the momentum carries 
him directly into the enemies' hands.


The group is surrounded by Aliens.  Skywalker jumps 
off his "jet-stick" and takes a defense stance.  The 
Aliens give him room.  They seem puzzled by these 
intruders and jabber to themselves.  Two leaders carry 
on a heated argument.  Finally one storms off in disgust 
and the other summons a guard who steps forward with 
a large spear in his hand.  Skywalker and the Alien 
stand surveying each other.  The Alien makes a lunge, 
the general counters, and the fight begins.  A desperate 
fight ensues, but eventually Skywalker wins by cutting 
the Alien in half with his lazer sword.  At this, all 
the Aliens worked into a frenzy mob, carry the general 
off and throw him over a thousand foot crevasse into 
a boiling lake.


The general's sure death, terrifies the bureaucrats 
and moves the princess.  The Aliens lead them to a 
small hut where they are imprisoned.  Unknown to everyone, 
the general grabs an overhanging vine on his descent 
and swings to safety.  He starts back to rescue the others when he encounters an Alien.  Skywalker starts 
to attack, but the Alien drops to the ground jabbering 
and carrying on.  The general recognizes the Alien as 
the one who argued with the leader, who ordered his death.
The general trys to communicate with the Alien, but 
all he can make out is that the creature worships him
and wants to take him some place urgently.


The Alien leads Skywalker to a clearing where a platoon 
of the Imperial guard is lounging, obviously waiting 
for someone or something.  The general jumps undercover 
as a herd of Aliens arrive with the princess and 
bureaucrats in tow.  A trade is made and the platoon 
leaves in a "speed tank" with the three captives.  The 
general tries to follow, but is unable to keep up.


The Alien leads Skywalker to a small farm where he discovers 
the boy rebels are  waiting for him.  The farm is owned 
by a cantankerous old farmer who is married to an Alien.  
He tells the group that he hates the Empire and shows them the 
location of an outpost where they might have 
taken the princess.


The general and his army of youthful warriors plan 
an attack on the small Imperial outpost.  They use 
surprise and the general's rigorous training to overcome 
the enemy and capture the outpost.  they discover the 
princess has been taken to Alderaan, the capitol of 
the Empire.  They make plans to rescue the princess 
from right under the nose of the Emperor.  The only 
craft at the outpost capable of intergalactic travel 
is a squadron of one-man devil fighters, which the 
general trains the kids to use.  When they feel they 
are ready, they strike out toward the center of the 
galaxy and the heart of the Empire.


Disguised as Imperial rangers, the small armada flies 
right through the gates of the impressive city-planet 
of Alderaan and stops at the prison complex.  After 
overcoming a series of difficult barriers and traps 
they find the princess and free her.



An alarm sounds.  The rebels are forced to fight their 
way out of the prison with "multiple lazer guns" and 
swords.  A few of the boys are killed, but most of 
them make it to their spacecraft followed by Skywalker 
and the princess.  They break through a ring of Imperial 
ships attempting to stop them and escape into deep 
space.


The princess' arrival on Ophuchi is celebrated by 
a huge parade, honoring the general and his small band.  
The princess' uncle, ruler of Ophuchi, rewards the 
bureaucrats, who for the first time see the princess 
revealed as her true goddess-like self.  The general 
commissions the "boy rebels" into the princess' special 
guard.  After the ceremony is over, and the festivities 
have ended, the drunken bureaucrats stagger down an 
empty street arm in arm realizing that they have been 
adventuring with demigods.


                    THE END ?

                                               MAY 25, 1973
