

				    STRANGE DAYS

					Scriptment

					    by

				   James Cameron

		At the beginning of any writing project
		is the agonizing period in which nebulous
		ideas dance before the mind's eye like
		memories of a dream, and vaporous vague
		shapes take on human form and begin to
		answer to their names.

		Trying to will a world into existence.  I
		circle around it, nibbling at the edges,
		writing notes about the social
		infrastructure and expounding to no one
		in particular about the themes of the
		thing.

		Then slowly a change happens.  Without
		warning, it becomes easier to write a
		scene than to write notes about the
		scene.  I start sticking words in the
		mouths of characters who are still
		mannequins, forcing them to move and to
		walk.  Slowly their movements become more
		human.

		The curve inflects upward, the pace
		increases.  The characters begin to say
		things in their own words.  By the end of
		this period I'm writing ten pages a day.
		The last day becomes endless, often
		stretching round the clock to the
		following noon.  The curve becomes almost
		vertical as the thing seems to come
		alive.  I become a witness only, a court
		reporter getting it down as fast as I
		can.

		Lenny Nero was born in 1985 when I
		decided to write a film noir thriller
		taking place on New Year's Eve 1999.  I
		was fascinated by the dramatic and
		thematic potentials of the millennium,
		and the idea of doomsday as a backdrop
		for the redemption of one individual.  At
		that time I made a few notes, totaling
		less than five handwritten pages.  I
		called it "The Magic Man," because Lenny
		can get you anything... like magic.  I
		never got around to writing it, at least
		not that decade.

		Eight years of vague ideas, three months
		of intense pondering, four weeks of
		writing and a few days of jamming.  I had
		gone up a hill and come down a mountain.
		Any scene that I couldn't crack right
		away, I skimmed over and used the
		novelistic treatment form to sort of
		mumble through.

		What you have is at once a kind of
		pathetic document; it is as long as a
		script, but messy and undisciplined, full
		of cheats and glossed-over sections.  But
		it is also an interesting snapshot of
		formatting a moment in the creative
		process.

		So what you are about to read is a flawed
		document, a work in progress, a detailed
		study for a painting.  But what is
		remarkable to me when I re-read this, is
		how parts of it have stood up through the
		entire process with barely a single word
		changed, while other parts are almost
		unrecognizable in the final film.

		The value of this "scriptment" lies
		solely in it being presented unchanged,
		unedited, unpolished.  It is the first
		hurling of paint against the wall in the
		visualization of a future world and the
		people in it.

		Enjoy.

						   James Cameron

1:06 AM, DECEMBER 30, 1999

Blackness.
We hear:

					VOICE
		Ready?

					SECOND VOICE
		Yeah.  Boot it.

It starts with a burst of bright white static exploding
across the darkness.  A high singing whine on the audio
track gives way to street sounds and rapid breathing.

An image wavers and stabilizes: the inside of a car, seen
from the backseat in POV.

A nervous POV.  We're in the car, sitting in the backseat,
and we're nervous, the view swinging around, showing the
street rolling by outside the windows, then whipping back
to the two guys in the front seat.  These are not happy
well-adjusted men.  They're hyperventilating and red-eyed
like a couple of lab rats in an electroshock experiment.
They want the cheese so bad they can taste it but you just
know they're going to get their little pink paws fried.

The driver is a Hispanic guy named "SPAZ" DIAZ.  The guy
riding shotgun is a white guy, LANE, who looks very strung
out.  Couple of crackheads.  The car, from what we can
see, is a mid-seventies barge, piebald with primer.

They are talking almost nonstop, cranked up and tense.
Lane pulls a pantyhose over his head, smearing his
features into a pig-like mask.  He hands one back to us.

Our POV looks down, into the pantyhose, which comes up
over our field of view.
We realize: this is not some ride-along verite video.
WE ARE ONE OF THESE GUYS.  Real honest-to-God point of
view, with no cuts, no music.  This is not film, it is
human experience.

Now the three of us are arguing over who should have which
gun.  We hear OUR VOICE whining about the 12 gauge.
Lane turns DIRECTLY TO THE LENS, pissed off.

					LANE
		Lewis, you pussy.  You don't want
		the pump, you don't have to use the
		pump.  You want the nine millimeter?

					LEWIS (OUR VOICE)
		Uh uh.  I never get to use the
		magnum.  Spaz always uses it.

					LANE
		Well Spaz is stayin' in the car, so
		you want to use the .44 you can use
		it.  Gimme that thing!

Lane snatches the shotgun from us and hands over a big
stainless steel revolver.  Our hand takes it.  The POV
looks down as our shaky hands snap open the cylinder,
check the rounds, snap it closed.

					LANE
		Buncha fuckin' woman.  Okay, pull in
		up here.  The alley, right here --
		THIS FUCKING ALLEY!

We rock forward as Spaz brakes suddenly.  He curses in
Spanish and backs up, then turns into an alley.  The
headlights illuminate overflowing dumpsters, trash
everywhere.  Lane tells Spaz to take it slow.  Then he
points to an open door up ahead.  There it is.

A Chicano in a filthy busboy uniform comes out the door,
which is an island of light in the dark alley, carrying
produce trays heaped with garbage.  He glances over his
shoulder at the headlights as he heads for the nearest
dumpster.  The busboy goes back inside, his arms full of
trays and unable to close the door.
Lane says let's go and we are on the move.
Out of the car, quickly, our own breathing loud in our
ears.  We even hear our own heartbeat, racing now.
Through the door, after Lane, moving fast.
Into the kitchen.  Bright fluorescent glare.  The busboy
turning, surprised, Lane putting the shotgun in his face.
Freezing him.  Lane puts a finger to his lips: "quiet" in
any language.
We (Lewis) show the magnum to the COOK... a young Thai
man, thin as a whippet.
We get them down on the greasy floor, Lane controlling
them with the shotgun.  He looks at us, snaps his eyes
toward the front room of the restaurant.  We hear voices
as we approach the swing door.
Go through.
Whip pan left, then right.  Scoping the layout.
Low-rent Thai place.  Red wallpaper.
Middle-aged Thai man, the OWNER, by the cash register,
counting money and writing out his deposit slips.  Young
Thai WAITRESS, straightening up.  the place is empty of
customers, as planned.  The doors locked.
The owner and the waitress look up, stunned, as we put the
guns on them.  We hear our voice shouting "Don't move!
Keep your hands where I can see 'em!" etc.

Controlling the situation.  POV is whipping around, from
the front door to the owner to the kitchen where Lane is
standing in the doorway covering the cook and busboy, back
to the owner as he steps back from the cash register.

With one hand we scoop up the big wad of bills.  POV
looking at it.  Seven, eight hundred bucks in tens and
fives.
Now shouting, herding the owner and the terrified waitress
into the kitchen, the owner chirping rapidly in sing-songy
Thai.  Telling the girl to be calm and do what they say.
Lane shouting at him to shut up.
Into the walk-in cooler with them.  Four scared pairs of
eyes as the steel door closes.  POV looking around,
scanning for something.  Sees silverware in the dish-rack
and our hands pull out a spoon, drops the spoon handle
through the hole in the cooler door-latch.
Locking them in.
Lane heading out the back door.  Laughing, as he looks at
the wad of cash our hand is waving in front of him.  We
follow Lane to the car.  Snap a look down the alley one
way, then the other.
Shit!  Cop Black-and-White pulling into the far end of the
alley.
Heartbeat goes tripletime.  Scrambling into the car.
Lane yelling something about a silent alarm.
Door not even closed and Spaz has it in reverse, burning
rubber as he launches back down the alley.
SCRRUNCH!  The car grinds along one wall as Spaz steers
wildly backward.  Sparks right next to us.  Then-- KBOOM!
as we slam backwards into a dumpster and push it right out
into the street.

The cop has his lights and siren on and is roaring at us
as Spaz cranks the wheel and punches it down the street.

We hear the engine roaring.
Spaz cursing in English and Spanish as he weaves between
cars.  We pull off the stocking to see better.
Looking back.  The cop surges onto the street behind us.
Looking ahead.  A red light.  Cars stopped, blocking the
way.
Cutting to the right, onto the sidewalk, around the cars,
into the intersection.
A near miss with cross traffic, then accelerating.
Another red light ahead.
Lane yelling don't stop!
Truck entering the intersection.  Everyone yelling.
Spaz cuts the wheel but too late...
Clipping the truck and spinning.
The street outside smearing past like the view from a
Tilt-a-Whirl.
Then KBLAM!  Hitting something, God-knows-what, and
launching up and over, and--
KRUNCH!  Crushing metal and an explosion of broken glass.
It gets quiet and still.
Tinkling glass as Lane moves.
A beat.  Then Spaz is screaming.  We see the car is upside
down.
Crawling out the side window.  A frenzy now.
Whip pan to see the cops pulling up.
Then whipping back to the wreck.
The engine is burning.  Flames spreading rapidly.
Spaz inside, pinned, upside down.
Screaming.  Blood pumping across his face.
Our hands pulling Lane out.
He comes up running.
We run after him...
Sprinting toward the welcoming darkness of an alley.

Panting breath and heartbeats and sirens and somebody
yelling.
Gunshots.  Looking back.  Cops next to their car, firing.
Ahead, Lane running into shadow.
Then a door opening, a man coming out of a metal firedoor.
Lane grabbing him, throwing him out of the way, holding
the door open as we dive through into--
A stairwell.  Lane sprinting up, two steps at a time.
Metal stairs clanging.
Trying the door at the second floor landing.  Locked.shit.
Running up.  Dizzying whirl as we run, up and up.

The POV is finally broken by a CUT TO: A man in extreme
closeup, just seeing his eyes and mouth.  The eyes are
closed, the eyeballs tracking under the lids, like he is
watching a movie in there.
This is LENNY.

					LENNY
		This is great... the doors are all
		locked.  Who are these losers?
		Friends a yours?

BACK TO POV as we reach the fifth floor landing.  Lane is
coming unglued as he finds this door locked.  He pounds it
in frustration.  We look down, see cops coming two floors
below.  One cranks off a couple rounds at us and we snap
back from the railing.
Pounding up the last flight.
Finally!  The door is unlocked.
Blasting through it, behind Lane, onto the roof.
Running all out past AC units and pipes, air vents.
Looking up: an LAPD helicopter orbiting close.
It flicks the xenon onto us and we are running in a
vibrating circle of blue daylight.
Running along the edge of the roof.  Looking down.
Car burning upside down in the street below.  The gas tank
explodes, filling the street with orange light.
We don't slow.  We're running all out.

					LENNY (V.O.)
		Wow... the gas tank is a nice touch.
		Oh, oh, end a the line, boys.

Ahead, in POV we see the edge of the roof coming up.
Beyond it is another building, about ten feet lower and
separated by a 20-foot alley.
But Lane doesn't slow down.  He leaps out across the void
and makes it to the other building, landing in a sprawl.
We reach the edge and look down.  Six stories.  No ladders
or fire-escapes.
Whip to behind us.  Cops running across the roof.
Lane yelling, "Come on, Lewis!  Fucking jump, man!"

The POV backs up from the edge and then runs toward it...
Out into the void.
Holy shit... airborne.  Then--
WHAM!  Right in the parapet wall.
Slipping down.  Brick wall right in our face.
Looking up... bloody fingers holding onto a rusty piece of
pipe running along the edge.
Looking down... feet dangling over a 60-foot drop.
A cat walking through a patch of light in the alley below,
oblivious.
Breathing rough and raspy, desperate grunts.
Snapping a look up as the pipe is giving way.
A keening whine coming from us as we scramble to climb up
but--
The pipe wrenches loose and--
Snapping a look down--
Walls rushing past, sound of wind, and our own raspy
scream--
Ground rushing up--
Split-second impression of a cat, looking up, yowling and
running out of the way as--
Pavement fills frame.
A burst of violent red light.  Sounds like a gunshot...
but no echo.
Only silence.  And Blackness.

CUT TO Lenny.  We see a little more.  He has something on
his head.  Something that looks like a mutated set of
Walkman headphones, except they have little gecko fingers
that fit along the temples and over the forehead.
Playback trodes.
Lenny whips off the trodes, his eyes snapping open.
He is suddenly gasping for breath, like he got gunpunched.
And his upbeat mood has changed.

					LENNY
		What the fuck is this?  Goddammit!
		You know I don't deal in snuff.
		Christ.  How many time I hafta tell
		you?

Lenny is with a guy named TODD COYLE, though everybody on
the street calls him "TICK."  Tick is a pale-skinned
creature of the night.  Long greasy hair, T-shirt and
leather jacket.  Some cheap tattoos.  Not a class act.

					TICK
		Don't have a fucking coronary.  I
		just thought you might be
		interested, is all.

					LENNY
		You could've at least warned me.  I
		just hate the zap... you know, when
		they die.  It just brings down your
		whole day.  Jeez, Tick.

					TICK
		Sorry.

LENNY NERO is low thirties.  Handsome.  Charming.  And
somehow you want to check to see if you still have your
ring after you shake with him.  He is wearing as expensive
Italian jacket, and what he thinks of as a "power tie."
His Rolex isn't real.  His greasy hair is too long and
curls around his collar.  He needs to shave.  There is an
aura of sleaze around him.  Like a car salesman.  Or a
junior agent.  But he has energy, this guy, and plenty of
streetsmarts.

They are in a deserted underground parking garage, lit by
miles of fluorescents.  Lenny is sitting on the hood of
his '97 BMW 1035i.  Tick is facing him, sitting in the
back door of his beat-to-shit 70's van.  There are a lot
of tapes and tech stuff piled inside the van.

Lenny has a Haliburton case often next to him, like a drug
dealer.  In fact the whole setup looks like a drug deal,
but it's not.  Though it is illegal.  The case holds
Lenny's personal playback deck, his trodes, and a rack of
the little tapes in which he deals.  They are about the
size of DAT tapes, and hold about 30 minutes of sensory
experience... everything a person sees, hears, and
feels... recorded directly from the cerebral cortex at the
moment it is happening.

					LENNY
		How'd you get the tape?  Why didn't
		the cops put it in evidence?

					TICK
		Fuckin' moron cops didn't even know
		the guy was wearin'.  I guess his
		head kinda, uh... popped... when he
		hit, and with all the blood they
		didn't see the rig.  Maybe he had it
		under a wig or something.

					LENNY
		Yeah, but how'd it get to you?

					TICK
		I got ways, Lenny, I got ways.
		S'why you like me so much, right?

					LENNY
			   (patiently)
		That's right, Tick.  That's why I
		like you so much.

					TICK
		Okay, I got a deal with some a the
		paramedics and one a them found the
		rig on the way in, you know, workin'
		on the guy.  Paged me and I picked
		it up down at the morgue.  Hadda
		give 'im five hundred for the
		record-deck, even though it was
		pretty banged up.  He didn't have a
		playback-deck so he didn't know what
		was on the tape.  Whadda moron.
		This piece a tape's worth more than
		the deck.  Right?  I mean, it's
		gotta be worth at least a grand.

					LENNY
		Tick.  Not to dash your hopes, but I
		don't deal this kinda product, you
		know that.  I'll give you four for
		it, cause I've gotta cut off the
		last bit.  And my customers don't
		like edits.  They want uncut.

					TICK
		Fuck that.  The last part is the
		best.  You dry-dive six stories and
		whammo -- check-out time.  Jackin'
		into the Big Black, baby.  The great
		beyond.  That's what people want to
		see, and you know it, so don't be
		doggin' me.

					LENNY
		Look, I just don't deal it.  No
		black-jack clips.  It's policy.  Got
		it?  Sell it to somebody else.

					TICK
		You think I can't?  I know lotsa
		people.

					LENNY
		Whatever.

					TICK
		Come on, Lenny.  I got expenses.  I
		gotta get this rig fixed... look at
		it, man... the blood's all inside,
		on the chips and everything.

Tick holds up a Ziploc bag containing a Walkman-sized
stainless steel CORTICAL RESONANCE RECORDER, or record
deck, with a wire running to the SQUID ARRAY, a matrix of
sensors designed to conform to the human head (this looks
much more complex than the playback trodes).  The whole
works are covered with congealed blood.  The surgical tape
which held the recorder to the wearer's body is still
plastered to it.  Some chest hairs are still stuck to the
surgical tape.

(SQUID stands for Superconducting QUantum Interface
 Device, but more on this later.)

					TICK
		Gimme six at least.  come on, man,
		it's the master.  this ain't no
		stepped-on copy.  You know you can
		make ten dupes and move 'em all.
		This's a good clip, here.  You were
		sayin' so yourself while you were
		playin' back.  Gets you pumpin'.

					LENNY
		Yeah, well, the first part's okay.
		Better'n the usual soaps you bring
		me.

					TICK
		Now that is cold, Lenny.  I always
		bring you choice

Lenny fishes around in a cardboard box at Tick's feet,
pulling out a tape.

					LENNY
		Yeah, like this low-grade shit here,
		some girl in a fight with her
		boyfriend... it's a test-pattern.
		Nothing happens.  I'm snorin'.

					TICK
		Hey, you're always saying, "Bring me
		real life.  Bring me street life.
		And, Like, one man's mundane and
		desperate existence is another man's
		Technicolor."

					LENNY
		I said that?  look, I'll take it for
		five, and you'll make out okay,
		because in this case it's pure
		cream, you don't have to cut
		anything back to the wearer, which
		I know for a fact.

					TICK
		Ha!  That's for fucking sure.

					LENNY
		Okay.  What else you got?

								    CUT TO:

Next we see Lenny on the move, driving through the streets
of LA in his BMW.  The streetlights and neon flare across
the windshield in a calligraphy of light.

It is seven years from now.  Things look pretty much the
same.  The newer cars are smaller, more cab-forward, but
they look like cars.  The people on the street aren't
wearing silver lame jumpsuits.  Clothes look like clothes.
No radical new styles.
The economy is worse.  The jobless rate is up.  New
housing is down.  All the indicators are creeping steadily
into the red, as they have for most of our lives.
California, the Shake 'n Bake state, is still mailing out
IOU's and waiting for the Big One to make Barstow into
beachfront property.

The freeways are a nightmare of gridlock, with smaller
cars packed closer and closer together.  Gas is over three
bucks a gallon.  Unemployment and inflation are way up.
Real estate agents have the highest suicide rate in the
country.  The Mexicans are going back to Mexico, because
it's not looking so bad anymore.

The visible changes are not radical but incremental.  More
gang graffiti, more homeless wandering the street, more
businesses closed, more burned-out buildings.  Racial and
class tensions are higher than ever.  The city seems
constantly on the verge of chaos and martial law, a legacy
of social dysfunction which has grown steadily worse since
the eighties.  Pressure seem to be building for an
upheaval which will dwarf the Spring riots of '92.  The
city is wound tight.
The future... tense.

But people still go to work, to movies, to restaurants.
It's business as usual in the big city.

The really big changes are all behind the scenes, in high
technology, in telecommunications, in the way it's all
wired up.  And the average guy is barely aware of these
changes.  They seep into his consciousness as the new toys
hit the consumer market and the new technologies become
part of life.  The way thing like lap-top computers and
cellular phones go from novelties to basics in two or
three years.

The technology that Lenny deals in is still illegal.
Developed in the mid-nineties, the CORTICAL RECORDER was
created for surveillance applications and used by the
intelligence community, initially.  Use of these "SQUID
RIGS" quickly spread to the FBI, DEA, Treasury Department,
and other Federal law enforcement agencies, for use in
undercover and sting operations, replacing the old audio-
only "body wire."

The "headwire" turns the "wearer" into a human video
camera, providing images and sounds directly from the eyes
and ears of the undercover agent.  In the last couple of
years it has trickled down to widespread use in urban
police departments, and has been approved for
psychologists to use in therapy.

The courts argued over the admissibility of cortical
recordings as evidence.  But it was decided that they were
more reliable than video and audio recordings, since
advances in digital technology have made it easy to alter
video images and sounds undetectably.  So far the
technology does not exist to manipulate or falsify the
cortical recordings.  They can be copied, with a
significant loss of quality, but basically what you see is
what happened.

Lenny has the radio on.  The KXXX's talk radio host is
hyping a big blow-out street-party which will happen
tomorrow night... New Year's Eve.  They're closing down
six square blocks downtown, by the Bonaventure Hotel, to
celebrate the city's transition into the new millennium.
It'll be like Mardi Gras, with food, music, dancing and
general madness.  Talk radio host calls it the party of
the century.

Because this is 1999.
And tomorrow night, Friday, December 31st, will be the
last night of the twentieth century.
The next day the date will be January 1, 2000
The Big 2K.
Out with the last thousand years, in with the next.
Civilization will lurch into its third millennium.
The start of the Trillennium, you could call it.

There is a strange hysteria pervading the city, and most
of the Western world, as the new year approaches.  A
mixture of jubilation and dread.  All the religious cranks
have come out of the woodwork, claiming the advent of the
Last Days, the Apocalypse, with various forms of the death
and destruction to arrive at midnight, when the calendar
rolls around to the year 2000.

Thousands have gathered in the desert for a Rapture,
having sold or given away their worldly possessions.
There is a madness upon the land.  People chant on the
streetcorners.  There are threats of war worldwide,
famines and natural disasters.
Wars and rumors of wars.
Any given moment in history always seems to fit the
Biblical description of the Last Days so it's not hard for
the zealots to get everyone whipped up.

It's hard to distinguish the particular millennial madness
from the day to day madness of street-life in LA seven
years from now.
Riots are a common occurrence.  Drive-by shootings are so
prevalent that in some areas the dead sometimes lie in the
street unattended.  Choppers circle constantly.  Fires
burn here and there almost all the time.  You can drive
past whole streets and neighborhoods devastated by
violence.  In places it looks like Beirut.  But of course,
life goes on.  Kids play among the ruins.

Civic leaders are overwhelmed.  Their social and economic
recovery plans aren't working.  As the millennium
approaches, they feel more and more like they are just
rearranging deck chairs on the Titanic.

Cops are tough, and less interested than ever in civil, or
even human rights.  Lenny's kind of crime is the least of
their worries.  He inhabits a kind of gray zone anyway,
invading people's privacy certainly, but the laws are
unclear about the new technology and as long as he keeps a
low profile the cops stay off his ass.

The history of the nineties in LA and most urban areas is
the history of the decline of the infrastructure.  By 1999
private security has replaced the police in most affluent
areas as the protective membrane against crime.  A condom
against the virus of violence.

There has been a proliferation of private security
services, patrols, bodyguards, and computerized alarm
systems.  There are computerized car alarms and even
personal (portable) digital alarm systems, carried in a
purse or coat pocket, which are tied into a digital
cellular network.  Hit a button and your distress signal
pops up on a screen, showing location, and nature of
threat, if you have time to enter it... allowing the
security service to dispatch an armed response unit.

It has become common for middle-income people to use
security drivers, driving taxi-like armored cars, to get
around... especially at night.  Security is the biggest
growth industry in LA, and all urban areas in the US.

The court system is collapsing under the weight of rampant
street crime, cops are understaffed and underfunded,
frustrated and mean, alienated from the communities they
protect.  They have become like US soldiers in Vietnam,
unable to tell the enemy for the populace they are there
to defend.

Private security protects only those able to pay.
Obviously these services are not available to the poor.
They are on their own, like always.  Safety is no longer
the right of all citizens, but a luxury for the haves.
The have-nots are worse off than ever.

If you want to sum up the history of the next seven years:
things got bad for a while.
Then, they got worse.

As parts of LA burn, the rich party on in Beverly Hills
and Bel Air, and the upper-middle-class burghers huddle in
their newly gated communities in the hills of Encino and
Calabasas.
More and more expensive neighborhoods are retreating
behind steel gates.  Setting up their own guarded
perimeters, and patrols.

And everyone watches and is watched.
LAPD Aerospatiale helicopters circle, looking down with
their infrared cameras.  There are crime-prevention
cameras on many streetcorners, to extend the visual reach
of the police.

There are security cameras in malls, cameras in office
buildings, cameras in banks, cameras in schools, cameras
in convenience stores, even citizen patrols with
handycams.  The cops use handycams, fighting fire with
fire, when they shake somebody down on the street...
because nobody, including the courts, trust their word
anymore.  And there is a rise in drive-by shootings of
people walking with cameras, and action news cameramen...
as if the gangs are putting out a message: no pictures.
The social battles of the video age are fought with
images, not guns.

Reality shows and amateur video shows dominate TV
programming.
It is the age of scopophilia, voyeurism, and vicarious
living.  The mania for amateur porn, starting in the early
nineties, has steadily increased.

We like to watch.  It is a surveillance culture.

Lenny, we will come to find out, is an ex-cop.  He worked
the street in uniform for the requisite minimum, but his
talent for hustling and role-playing quickly landed him a
job in Vice.  He found himself attracted to the electronic
surveillance team.

Lenny wanted out of Vice so he slid into the surveillance
team, doing "wire" work and bugging for Narco, Homicide,
etc.  He couldn't stand Vice anymore... all that jumping
out of closets with a tape recorder the second the girl
asks for the money, busting crack addict hookers, the
weird scenes with S and M, B and D, getting dragged daily
through the gutter of human sexual dysfunction.

Surveillance team took him into a new realm, snooping on
people's private lives, getting inside their heads.  It
appealed to his basically voyeuristic nature... he found
he liked it, and had a talent for it.

That's where he first saw the "squids."  He learned to
"wire" himself and others with concealed squid rigs,
taping the recorders to the small of his back, or under
the balls, and covering the squid array with wigs,
hairpieces, baseball caps.

Something happened on a big narcotics sting that he
doesn't like to talk about.  He left the LAPD under a
cloud, and has been a civilian for almost two years.

He now inhabits a social sphere composed primarily of
street hustlers whose primary motivation is survival...
hookers, druggies, post-punk criminal outsiders,
anarchists, black marketeers and assorted high-tech low-
life: hackers, cyberpunks, wireheads and input junkies.

But with a little charm and a well-chosen wardrobe, he
also accesses the social strata on which he feeds... the
rich.  At parties, at nightclubs, he curries a select
clientele to whom he sells his illicit wares... bootleg
experiences, slices of other people's lives, vicarious
thrills for the jaded and insulated elite.
He is to them what the coke dealer was in the early
eighties.  A backdoor friend.  A tolerated sleazebag, who
somehow connoted a kind of dangerous hipness by his
presence.

Lenny is on his cellular, setting up a meeting later with
a client.  Some doctor.  Lenny says he has to make a stop
first, then he'll come by the guy's house.  He makes
another call to somebody, promising to pay them what he
owes after the first of the year, things are crazy right
now.

Lenny is an operator.  A fast-talking salesman, scam
artist.  Hustler.  A dealer.  He is a creature of the
moment.  Not a planner.  To him the city is like a big
coral reef... a big food chain.  Alive and dynamic.  A
place where a fast fish can eat and avoid being eaten.

Lenny's great gift is insight into human nature.  He
twists it and uses it to manipulate people and situations,
but it is a great and rare talent.  Because it is a
compassionate insight.  The talent of a world-class
psychiatrist or bartender or hooker -- the ability to see
into people, to say to them what they may not even be able
to say to themselves.

He knows about longing and desire, pain and frustration.
He knows what people want, what their subconscious minds
want, and why they do things.   He knows the importance of
fantasy and of seeing through other eyes.  To him it is
not scopophilic, or voyeuristic, but a search for
understanding, enlightenment, knowledge.  This is the
serious side of him, the side he hides with humor, the
side that fuels his scams and is simultaneously the key to
his redemption.
The talent made him good at his job as a Vice dick, but
ultimately he saw the total hypocrisy of his work.  He was
good at something he couldn't stand doing.

He couldn't be a Vice cop anymore because he couldn't make
the bad guys be bad guys in his head anymore... couldn't
do his job.
He just saw a lot of people wanting something which worked
for them, even though it may not have been the panacea of
missionary heterosexual sex which mainstream "surface"
culture prescribed, even though it may be a path which
caused them pain and humiliation.
Christlike, in a strange way, he understands all, forgives
all.

Lenny driving gives us a snapshot of the exact moment in
history the story is taking place... the date, the time,
the city, and the energy building to the New Year.
We see Christmas lights still up.
Santa Clauses on the lamp-posts in Beverly Hills.
We hear the talk radio host giving us a manic connection
to the world we know now.
This is not some wild Bladerunner future, but our future.
The future we're going to be living in all too soon.
Outside the windows we see street-life... and in the
distance, fires lighting the sky.  The chirping radio
keeps the dread of the impending Apocalypse at bay.

								    CUT TO:

A woman's feet moving along the steel rail of a train
track at night.  The woman has no shoes, and her stockings
are ripped, her feet half bare.  Red painted toenails
almost black in the cold light from distant mercury-vapor
lights.

IRIS runs along the track, stepping off once in a while as
she loses her balance.  she clutches one shoe pointlessly
to her chest.
She is swearing and crying.  The latter has run her heavy
mascara, leaving two tragic streaks down her pale face.
Despite this we see that she is attractive, though her
dress and make-up seem designed to convey overt sexiness.
Her white skin is complemented by a wild mane of curly red
hair.

She is in her twenties, and the harshness of her life has
just begun to harden her features.  Especially around the
eyes.
On top of this is layered the terror of the present
moment.
She looks lost and without hope, in fear of her life.
Her breath comes in hitching sobs, and her eyes are wild
like those of a wounded deer.

She runs through a train yard, between the cold steel
walls of freight cars, looking behind her frequently.  As
if she is being pursued.  Her breath hangs cold in the
December air, and she hugs herself in her thin dress,
clutching her single high-heel under her arm.

Behind her, in the sky, a police helicopter is circling.
Its xenon beam plays over the train yard, sweeping over
the cars.  She hunches into the shadows of a freight-car
as the beam passes over.  Looking under the cars she sees
an LAPD patrol car cruising down a street adjoining the
yard, its searchlight sweeping toward her.  It moves on.

She continues her run, moving away from the direction of
the patrol car.  She runs down an embankment in the dark,
gravel hurting her feet, and climbs through bushes which
slash at her.
Her run becomes a frenzy.
She reaches a chain-link fence.  Crying, she scrambles
over it, cutting her hands and ripping her dress.
Another patrol car passes two blocks away.
She crouches in the tall grass until it rounds a corner
out of sight.
Iris sprints down an alley between buildings.  Rats run
over cardboard boxes of garbage, scattering into the
shadows ahead of her.  She doesn't seem to notice.  All
she cares about are the lights, the police lights, and the
sound of the helicopter droning, circling.

She pauses at the mouth of the alley, scanning the well-
lit street beyond.  There are people here, though they are
mostly downtown low-life street people.

Across the road and up a half-block is a brightly lit sign
marking the entrance to a Red-Line subway station.
She walks along the sidewalk toward the sign.
It is like a sanctuary.  She keeps her eyes off the sign,
feeling exposed as she walks openly, her heart pounding.
She is a mess, but in this section of town people barely
glance at her.

LOW ANGLE on her bare feet, standing out amid the shoes
and boots of winter.

SHE CROSSES the street, and reaches the sidewalk just as a
Black-and-White rounds the corner at the end of the block,
behind her.

IN THE CRUISER are TWO COPS, who are scanning the street.
They look intense.  Revved up.
They are BURTON STECKLER, a massive, barrel-chested
street-lifer in his mid-forties, and DWAYNE ENGELMAN, an
aggressive hard-on in his twenties with a brush cut, a
Nautilus body, and a face like a ferret.

She's a hooker, Engelman says.  Vice'll have her in the
book.  We can pick her up later.
No, Steckler replies.  Now.
His eyes are cold as he scans the pedestrians.

IRIS knows the cops are behind her.  She is terrified to
turn.
Finally she can't stand it any more.
She breaks into a run.
The patrol car speeds up suddenly, roaring after her.
Iris sprints along in her bare feet, all-out like a track
runner.
The Black-and-White screeches to the curb next to her.
The doors fly open and the two cops jump out.

Iris hits the stairs down to the subway station at a full-
tilt boogie, knocking down some poor old guy whose
groceries go flying.
She trips on the landing, spins sprawling across the
filthy tile floor, and comes up running.
Panting with fear and exertion she clears the turnstyles
like a hurdler.
The cops pound down the stair two at a time.
Steckler draws his 9mm.  In his eyes we see an
unaccountable craziness... the feral gleam of a hunter who
has as much at stake somehow as the prey.

Street people fall back as Steckler thunders through them.
They aren't about to get in the way of this juggernaut cop
and his boy wonder.

The two cops reach the platform.
No Iris in sight.

MOVING WITH THEM as they slow to a walk, scanning.  A
couple of low-lifes standing around, waiting for trains,
eye them warily.
Step back.

Engelman gets a call on his Rover, asking if they need
backup.
He says they have lost the suspect, and inexplicably gives
the description as a black male.  Tells the dispatcher
everything is fine.

A train pulls into the station with a woosh of air.
The few people board.  The platform is empty.
There is only the sound of the cop's footsteps as they
move along.
With a pneumatic hiss the train's doors begin to close.

Suddenly Iris breaks from behind a column up ahead at a
full sprint.  Steckler unleashes his size 13 cop shoes,
thundering along the platform to intercept her.

Engelman has straight-armed his pistol, yelling FREEZE!
which of course she has no intention of doing.

Iris clears the doors just as they hiss shut, forcing
herself through.

Her momentum carries her clear across the car, where she
slams into the far wall and staggers back, almost falling.
She gasps for breath and looks up to see Steckler crash
against the outside of the doors she just came through.
The train start to move.
Steckler tries to force the doors apart... can't.
He aims his gun through the window.
Thinking fast Iris dives to his side of the car and
presses herself up against the solid wall next to the
door, where he can't see her.

OUTSIDE, Steckler is running next to the accelerating
train.
He swings his pistol in a back-hand hammer blow, smashing
the window with the butt.

Iris screams as Steckler lunges through the opening next
to her like some uniformed nightmare and grabs her.
He is still running alongside pulling on her.
Trying to drag her right out through the window.
She struggles.  Bites his beefy hand.
He swears and lets go.
Then makes one last grab...
Gets his fingers into her long mane of hair.
Yanks on her.  She comes half out the window, screaming.
Then... RIP!

The hair pulls off her head.
Steckler drops away, behind the speeding train, holding a
red-haired wig in one hand.
He looks at it stupidly for a second, then raises his
pistol and fires at Iris.

She jerks back through the window and drops to the floor.
A couple of shots hit the metal outside.
Iris has short hair, platinum white.  In it are a few of
the many pins which held the wig securely in place.
She gasps for air in great shaky sobs.  She hugs her
knees and sits on the floor trembling, catching her
breath.

STECKLER STANDS on the platform, watching the train
disappear, as Engelman runs up.
Steckler looks at the wig in his hand, disgusted.
Then he notices a fine wire dangling from it.
He turns it in his hand and looks inside, at the cap.

CLOSE ON THE CAP inside the wig: there is an intricate
network of sensors in a grid over the entire underside of
the wig.  The sensors are connected by wires, in a pattern
like the veins of a leaf, bundling to a small, flat metal
box, the size of a cigarette case.
It is a SQUID NET.  The sensor array of a cortical
recorder.
Iris was Wired.

Steckler just stares at it, his eyes going crazy wide.
Engelman realizes what it is and blanches.
Oh shit, he says.

IT'S 4 AM.  Lenny trudges up to the entrance to his
apartment building.  It is a two-story stucco place, built
in the sixties.
Upgraded in recent years with heavy security gates and
bars on the windows, neither of which help its already
drab design.

He uses a worn key-card to release the solenoid lock at
the front gate.
There is no response.  He tries it again.  Nothing.
Frustrated, he pulls on the steel bars.  The gate opens.
He notices that the lock has been forced with a crowbar,
leaving useless twisted metal.  Great.

He walks across the center court of the ratty building.
The pool furniture is in the pool.  Leaves floating on
top.
Graffiti marks the walls.  Gang tags.  One of the doors
looks like somebody opened it with an axe.
The pool lights give the place an eerie, dead glow.
Can our slick Lenny really live in this dump?

Through a barred window we see Lenny approaching.
The sound of Lenny's OUTGOING MESSAGE is heard and we see
his answering machine in the F.G.
The beep.  We hear a woman's voice... Iris.
She is begging him to pick up.
Through the window we see Lenny fishing in his pocket for
his keys.

CUT TO Iris at a payphone in the cold light of an all-
night gas station.
She tells Lenny she's in trouble and she really needs to
talk to him.
There's no one else she can trust.  It's really important.
She needs his help.

INSIDE LENNY'S place, Iris' voice finishes the message
just as Lenny unlocks the door and comes in.  All he hears
is that she'll call him back later.
He picks up the phone.  Hears the click of her hang up.

IRIS rests her hand on the phone, hanging in its cradle.
She seems dazed, deflated, out of options.  She looks
around nervously, scanning the street.  No cops in sight.
She fishes in the purse on her belt for some more
quarters.  Feeds them into the phone and dials.
She takes a deep breath, listening to it ring.

LENNY doesn't stop to play back Iris' message, or any of
the twenty others on his machine.  He just deadbolts the
door and locks a steel bar across the doorframe.

Lenny sets down his Haliburton and crosses the room toward
the kitchen.  He becomes more stealthy in his movements...
like he's sneaking up on the kitchen.
He silently opens a drawer and reaches inside.
His hand comes out holding a gun.
He reaches for the light... and snaps it on suddenly.

In the light half a dozen cockroaches freeze in or near
the sink, which is piled up with a weeks worth of dirty
dishes.
Lenny aims his weapon swiftly.
SPANG!  A suction-cup tipped plastic dart splatters one of
the beasts against the tile behind the sink.
Lenny cheers like his team just scored.  He lives for
this.

We see the truth of his reality.
Lenny's crib is a shit-box.  It is a standard one-bedroom,
barely furnished.  A couple of chairs.  Swap meet couch.
No art, no personal touches on the walls.
There are cardboard boxes full of tech gear stacked in the
corners.
Some unidentified electronics components are piled on a
table, with cables strung across the floor and into the
bedroom.
God knows what this stuff is.
There is aluminum foil taped to all the windows.
Fast food cartons, empty Coke cans, pizza boxes, etc. are
everywhere.
The fridge, revealed when he gets some ice for the vodka
he pours himself, contains almost nothing edible.
This is the bachelor apartment from hell.
High-tech low-life.
He goes into the bedroom.  There is a mattress on the
floor.
Clothes strewn everywhere.  More boxes.  More electronic
gear, on a shelf made from a board laid across two cinder
blocks.
The room is dominated by racks of tapes... squid tapes.

The apartment is a place where Lenny sleeps, and that's
all.  His life is outside, on the street.  His car and his
clothes are all he has.  He is living in a balloon... an
illusion he creates for others.

Lenny takes off his clothes and hangs them over a chair.
He sits on the bed in his underwear, looking now lonely
and depressed.  This is the private Lenny, who has dropped
his street face.  He lives from day to day, in the energy
of the moment, and when the day is over... he has nothing.
No plans.  No dreams.  Nothing to look forward to but
another day of the hustle.

He sits cross-legged on the bed with his back against the
wall.
Then he takes a cortical playback deck from the floor next
to him and sets it on the bed.  He raises the trode-set
and places it carefully on his head.

He fishes around in a shoebox among a bunch of tapes,
squinting at the hand-written dates and descriptions.  We
can't read much of his scrawl, but what all the tapes in
the box seem to have in common is the word FAITH, printed
on them clearly.

He selects one and inserts it in the deck.  Makes some
minute adjustments.  Like an audiophile tweaking the EQ.
Then he rests his finger on the PLAY button.
Sips his vodka.  Leans back.  Closes his eyes.
And hits PLAY.

PLAYBACK SEQUENCE/POV:

We are moving along the Venice boardwalk, following a
YOUNG WOMAN on rollerblades.  By our motion, it is obvious
that we are on rollerblades too, and not doing so well.
The woman is laughing, turning circles around us, cracking
up at our discomfort.
We hear Lenny's voice complaining a mile a minute, and we
realize the POV is his.  The girl takes our hands, skating
backward, towing us along the boardwalk.  It is a sunny
afternoon, and it is the usual boardwalk freak-show all
around us.

The woman is FAITH JUSTIN, but lately she just goes by
FAITH (like Cher, Madonna, etc.).  She is a singer, and
Lenny is desperately in love with her.  It's not hard to
see why.  She is beautiful, in an alive, dynamic way.  Her
hair is a wild dark mane, and her eyes are spectacular...
intense.  She moves with a lithe, sinuous grace.  She is
dressed in shorts and a halter top, showing lots of her
ivory skin.
We are staring at her eyes instead of concentrating on
skating.
Whammo!  The POV spins and we are sitting, looking up at
Faith as she circles, laughing.  She skates over to help
us up.

CUT TO LENNY, on his bed, smiling.  We don't know if this
tape is from a year ago or yesterday, or where Faith is
now.  She might be dead, or she might walk in the door.
He punches a button on the deck.

BACK TO POV.  The image goes into a kinetic blur of
digital hash... FAST FORWARD.
It goes back to normal running speed and we are sitting on
the steps of a decrepit stucco apartment building two
blocks from the beach, taking off our rollarblades.  We
get up and follow Faith up the stairs to a second floor
apartment.  We go inside.  It is small and funky.  You get
the impression they are living together.

Music is playing, a disc player she left on.  Bob Marley
singing "Three Little Birds."  Faith, covered with a sheen
of sweat, sways to the music as she goes into the bedroom.
We follow her.

She comes out of the small bathroom with a towel, starts
to dry off.
We move up behind her and take the towel away.
Lenny's voice says he likes her better sweaty.
We see Lenny standing behind Faith in the mirror over the
dresser.  Behind them is the messy, unmade bed.  Sunlight
comes in the window lighting up Faith like she is in a
spotlight.
Lenny puts his arms around her and they sway together to
the music.  He runs his fingers in lazy circles over her
sweaty belly.  He leans down and licks the sweat off her
shoulder, all the while watching her in the mirror.  We
see past her shoulder to the reflected image of both of
them in the mirror.  Their eyes meet in the mirror.

They both watch as Lenny slides his hand up under her
halter and caresses her nipples.  She moans softly,
responding.  She turns to him, and POV shifts directly to
her.  She is right in front of us, in TIGHT CLOSE UP.  The
intimacy is powerful.  She closes her eyes and gets even
closer, kissing Lenny.

She opens her eyes, and laughingly busts him for keeping
his eyes open during the kiss.  She know how visual he
is... how that is a big part of his turn on.  He looks
from her, inches away, back to the mirror, seeing them
both together full length... a voyeur recording his
voyeurism through his own eyes, so he can replay and
relive the moment.

Lenny's hands pull her halter over her head.  Faith pulls
up on Lenny's T-shirt, and we see it go over our eyes,
blocking the view for a moment.  Faith kisses Lenny's bare
chest.  We are looking down at her, looking down across
our body, Lenny's body, as Faith kisses lower, kneeling in
front of us.
Faith unbuckles our belt and slowly unbuttons the fly of
our jeans.  Her hands pull down on the pants and we--

CUT TO LENNY in the here and now.  Lost in playback memory
bliss.  He inhales sharply behind a wave of electronically
recorded pleasure.

BACK TO POV.  Lenny pulls Faith up to his face, kissing
her.  We lead her to the bed.  We lie down together in a
pool of sunlight which slashes across the tangled sheets.
We see his hands helping her pull off her shorts.  We kiss
our way down her body, her creamy skin filling our field
of view.  We look up and see her looking down at us with
smiling eyes.
We move below her navel and--

CUT TO LENNY, lost in the swirl of sensation.  He touches
his tongue to his fingertips.

IN POV we move back up to her body.  Supporting ourselves
on straight arms, we look down at her as we enter her.
She gasps and closes her eyes, grabbing the headboard with
both hands.  She rocks with the rhythm of our thrusts.  It
builds in intensity and she cries out, the tendons in her
neck standing out.  There is only the sound of gasping
breaths, the creaking bed frame.

CUT TO LENNY, reliving the past, under the electrodes.
He reacts to the past orgasm.  The tape ends.

Lenny slowly takes off the trodes.
There is a tiny tear at the corner of his eye.  He seems
desolate and very alone in his bleak room.

2:14 PM, DECEMBER 30

Lenny cracks an eye.Looks at the cheap alarm clock sitting
on a cardboard box next to his bed.
Sunlight comes like lasers through a couple of gaps around
the edges of the aluminum foil over the window.

TIGHT ON LENNY'S TV coming on.  His companion during the
"morning" routine.
He goes to the fridge in his underwear.  Opens it.
Nothing for breakfast.

On the TV, 90 percent ignored by him, is a news program.
Something about a religious cult whose members, which
number in the thousands, have given away all their
belongings and gathered in the desert near Needles,
California, for some kind of Rapture.  They all expect to
get beamed up on the Eve of Judgment... tomorrow night.
The two news anchors at the station do their best to
remain professional as they comment on the video clip of
people sitting out in the middle of nowhere singing and
praying.

Lenny finds a raspberry popsicle in the back of the
freezer.  He has this for breakfast as he goes to the
closet and starts picking out his clothes for the day.

This is a ceremony he observes carefully.
In his closet is a small selection of pretty good clothes.
He lays out a shirt and jacket combo.
Starts laying ties up against them.  Humming to himself.

Lenny scowls at the tie he has chosen.  Puts it back on
the hanger.  Gets another.  Nods to himself.

CUT TO a transformed Lenny, driving through the Thursday
evening traffic.  It is about five o'clock: dusk.
Lenny looks slick... his look dialed-in.
This is Lenny on the move.  Seizing the day.  Talking on
the phone, setting up an appointment.  We sense that the
hustle is what keeps him going... something he needs, that
he does well... an immediacy he can immerse himself in.
There's money to be made.  Dreams to sell.  Souls to X-
ray.

On the radio, we hear a late-breaking story: the bodies of
two men found early this morning under the Hollywood
freeway have been identified as rap-music artist Jeriko
One and another member of his band.  The second man was
known in the music world as "Replay," born James Polton.
Both men were shot repeatedly, in what police are
characterizing as an "execution-style" killing.  The body
of an as yet unidentified woman was found with them, also
shot numerous times.  Police earlier said that the
killings appear to be gang-related.  Jeriko One, whose
latest album has sold over a million copies, recently used
his music popularity to become a vocal activist on inner-
city issues...

As this news story plays like a kind of voice over, we
drive past scenes of LA deterioration.  Homeless people
wandering.  Gang members riding around in cars.
Helicopters circling.

The city is settling into night.
Neon and streetlights coming on.
Lenny pulls into the parking lot of a bar called THE CORAL
LOUNGE.  He gets out of the BMW with his Haliburton and
sets the car's alarm.

INSIDE THE CORAL LOUNGE Lenny cruises among the early
regulars.  Once again he seems to know everybody.

The decor is sort of Polynesian.  Goofy tropical motif
murals on the walls.  The bartender, BOBBY, wears a
Hawaiian shirt.
We see that the place has a mixed bag of customers,
including upwardly mobile low-life who have graduated from
the streets and use it as a kind of office.  It is a
crossroads for druggies, upscale hookers, junior
entertainment suits slumming after a day in the pressure
cooker.

Lenny sits at the bar and orders a drink.
A guy he knows named FABRIZIO, who works as a salesman at
a Ferrari dealership, comes over and puts his hand on
Lenny's shoulder.  Fabrizio says he has a guy that wants
to talk to him, and nods his head at a booth nearby.  The
guy in question is dressed LA power-casual: jeans,
topsiders, knit-shirt under Italian jacket.  Looks like
money to Lenny.

Fabrizio reminds him as they cross the room that he gets
10 percent of any action for the introduction.

Lenny presses flesh with the guy, whose name turns out to
be GRAEME KEITH.  He's an entertainment attorney that
Fabrizio sold some cars to over the years.  Now he's
interested in what Lenny has to sell.

Lenny asks the guy if he's a cop.  Keith says no.  Lenny
laughs it off, says he knows, but he's gotta ask.  My
second question I gotta ask, so we get our bearings
here... have you ever jacket in?  Have you ever
wiretripped?

No, Keith says.

A virgin mind, Lenny says with a winning grin.
We see Lenny go to work on the guy.  Very charming.  Tells
him how the rig works, how the whole thing got started,
with Federal intelligence agencies.

The guy wants to show he's cool, that he knows a bit about
it.  So he fills in part of the story.  How SQUID
technology was used by the law enforcement to replace the
audio-only body wire.  How the current booming black
market got started, etc.

Lenny says, I see you've done your homework, so you know
already that the effects are harmless, done in moderation
like anything, and that this bullshit over a public health
risk is just bullshit.  So I'm guessing you've past the
homework stage, what you want now is to try it out.  Am I
right?  Guy like you, a mover and a shaker, a plugged-in
guy, wants to taste all of life there is.  You drive
Ferraris?  You know that feeling when you shift from
second to third in a 308?  How do you explain that to
somebody.  You can't.  You gotta experience it.  That's
what life is all about.  Being there.  Well that's what
this is.  You're there.  You're doing it, seeing it
hearing it... feeling it.

What kinda things, exactly?  Keith asks, hooked like a
carp.

Whatever you want.  Who do you want to be, today?  I'm
assuming a guy like you, you wanna go skiing you go
skiing.  That's not what you're interested in here.  It's
about the stuff you can't have.  Right?  The forbidden
fruit.

Fabrizio chimes in with, Lenny gives people their heart's
desire.  Ain't that right, Lenny?  He's like some kinda
Santa Claus of the Subconscious.  All you gotta do is sit
on his lap and tell him what you need.

Lenny goes on... You wanna take a walk to the dark end of
the street?  The stuff you could never do... but sometimes
you think about.  You say... I wonder what that other
guy's life is like.  If I could just walk in his skin for
twenty minutes.  That guy running into a liquor store with
a .357 magnum in his hand, feeling the the adrenaline
pumping through his veins, every nerve tight like a guitar
string, feeling shit scared but so alive it's like red hot
and ice cold at the same time.  Or that other guy, the one
with the drop-dead Philippino girlfriend, wouldn't you
like to be that guy for twenty minutes... the right twenty
minutes.  You're married, I see the ring... so now there's
so much of life you give up, sometimes you feel like a
prisoner... but you don't have to.  You can have it all.
Anything you want.  You want a girl, you want two girls, I
don't know what your thing is or what you're curious
about... you want a guy?  You want to be a girl?  See what
that feels like?  You want a nun to tie you up?  It's all
doable.  You just gotta remember the brain is the most
important sexual organ.

Talk to me about costs, here.

Okay.  Well it's a hardware-software kinda proposition.
First you need a playback deck, which I'm going to get for
you at my cost, since my thing is the software.

Clips.

That's right.  Very good.  I get the clips.  I have a very
select clientele, but I'm willing to take you on since
you're a friend of Fabrizio's here and we go back.

How much for the deck?

A businessman.  I like that.  Listen, before we get into
numbers, I want you to know what we're talking about here.
This isn't like TV only better.  This is life.  It's a
piece of somebody's life.  This isn't like anything you've
ever done before, and I want you to try it... you're gonna
go apeshit.  I got a deck in my case here, you can try a
couple of sample experiences--

What?  Right here?

Naw, come with me, we'll get some privacy going, you can
check this out.  Fabrizio, why don't you get another
round, we'll be back in five.

Lenny gets up and Keith follows him.
They go down a short corridor to the men's room and Lenny
checks to see if it's empty, then locks the door and puts
his Haliburton up on the sink.  Pops it open.

OUTSIDE THE CORAL LOUNGE.  It is full night now.  We see a
figure move stealthily from the shadows and approach
Lenny's car.  A woman with jet-black hair, wearing jeans
and a coat.  It is Iris, obviously trying to look as
different as possible from last night.
She has a black eye, which she has tried to cover with
makeup.

Looking furtively around, she crosses to Lenny's car and
tries the door handles.  It's locked.  She looks at the
bar.  Debates going in to find him.

Iris takes a piece of paper from her pocket and writes him
a note: LENNY, HELP ME.  PLEASE.  I'LL CALL YOU TONIGHT.
IRIS.
Then she takes something else from her pocket, a squid
tape.  She wraps the note around it, holding it in place
with a hair-tie, and drops it through the two-inch gap in
the sunroof of Lenny's BMW.
It lands on the seat, and bounces off onto the floor.
Shit, she says, squinting through the windshield, trying
to see where it landed.
She glances around, looking totally paranoid.
Iris sees a police car coming down the street.
She turns her back and waits, petrified, as it passes.
When it is gone she sags against Lenny's car.  Her knees
buckle and she slides down, with her back against the car
door, crying quietly in the shadows.
Afraid to move.

IN THE MEN'S ROOM Lenny adjusts the position of the
playback headset on Keith's head.  He selects a tape and
puts it in the deck.
Grins at the lawyer, who nods nervously.  Lenny's got the
guy sitting on the counter next to the sink.  He tells him
to close his eyes and relax.  Then he punches PLAY.

We don't see what the guy is experiencing.  Just his
reactions.  First he jerks... the his mouth drops open.
He gasps and starts to breathe rapidly.  He puts his hands
on his body and "feels" it wonderingly.
Then one hand raises reflexively, in response to something
on the tape.  He groans and tilts his head down, as if
looking down, but his eyes are closed.  He gasps... and
Lenny punches PAUSE.

The lawyer opens his eyes.  Lenny grins knowingly.

You were just an eighteen-year-old girl taking a shower.
Are you beginning to see the possibilities here?

The guy is clearly shocked and intoxicated by the
experience.

IN THE BAR a man in his late thirties enters.  He has
longish hair and hasn't shaved in days.  He wears a long
army jacket, which adds additional bulk to his massive
frame.  He walks to the bar with a slight limp.  The
bartender sees him coming and moves casually down to him.
Where is he? the man says.
The bartender looks toward the men's room and the man
nods.

ON LENNY and the lawyer, coming out of the can.
They move down the short hallway.  Lenny, his voice
lowered, is saying let's sit down and talk about getting
you set up.

The door to the woman's restroom is whipped open and the
guy in the army jacket comes out behind Lenny.
He grabs him and hurls him face-first against the wall,
sticking .45 against the back of his head and saying don't
move, you miserable puke!  That's right!... and kicking
his feet apart, keeping him off balance.

The lawyer splits in a hurry, pretending he's not with
Lenny.  Fabrizio gets a whiff of what's going on and goes
after him.
Rats deserting the ship.
Lenny whips around, swearing.  He roughly shoves the other
man back against the wall by the payphones.
The guy in the army jacket doesn't resist because now he's
laughing too hard.  He puts the .45 back in his waistband.

Gotcha, the guy says.

Goddammit, Max!  I was with a client, you dumb
motherfucker.  Shit, look... now the guy's outta here.
Son of a bitch.

Come on, Lenny, MAX says, let me buy you a drink.

They go to the bar.  Max roars greetings to several
regulars, stopping conversations all around the room,
instantly becoming the center of attention.  They call he
"Mad Max."
He says fuckin A right, I might just kill every man in
here.  But first I'm buyin' my buddy here a drink.

Max lurches onto a barstool and hunches there like a
misanthropic bear, pounding the bartop until he gets what
he wants, which is quick service from Bobby, the
bartender, and none of your well-shit tequila... gotta be
Tres Generaciones!  Double shots!

Mad Max is MAX PELTIER (which he himself mispronounces as
"Pelcher"), Lenny's best friend.  Max is also an ex-cop.
A homicide detective who's out on a disability pension.
Some shitbird shot him in the head with a .22 and pushed
him over a freeway guardrail.  He fell 30 feet and
shattered two vertebra.
Woke up three days later in a hospital bed, with a .22
shot floating around in his brainpan somewhere, and a bad
headache.  Imagine how pissed off he was.

Now he supposedly works as a private detective, but
doesn't seem to do much but drink for a living.  Though it
never seems to affect him.

On the plus side he's intelligent, articulate, funny and
acidly cynical.  He has a kind of cheeriness, as if the
completely fucked-up state of the world is a source of
endless amusement for him.  Max believes in the lowest and
most venal interpretation on any given event and is seldom
disappointed.  He is also a sort of street philosopher,
given to long rambling tracts on the state of things.

He can make friends with anyone in a heartbeat, and has a
very low tolerance for bullshit.  He's loud, boorish,
thinks he's always right, and is the kind of capable guy
you'd call first in a jam.

He and Lenny go way back.  Worked together in Vice, before
Max made Homicide and Lenny went onto the surveillance
team.

Lenny's still pissed off about losing a sale.  He's tight
on cash and it's going to be a big weekend.

Max tells him to relax, there's a lot more fish in the
sea.  And nobody knows how to work 'em like you do, pal.
You could sell a goddamn rat's asshole for a wedding ring!
Hey, that's a nice tie, Lenny.

Thanks, Max.

D'you always have to dress like a fucking pimp?

Look, this tie cost more than your whole wardrobe.  It's
the one thing that stands between me and the jungle.

Maybe, now I think about it, you are a pimp... some kinda
electronic techno-pimp.

He calls Lenny an input junkie.  Says the biggest problem
is he's sampling his own merchandise too much.
Says, You should knock that shit off, or you're going to
fry your brain, amigo.  Hey Bobby!  Another shooter right
here. (to Lenny) I like the simple, old-fashioned kind of
slow death.  Call me a traditionalist.  Hey, you seen
Faith lately?

Lenny gets uncharacteristically glum.

Naw, she's still with that music slick.  Philo Gant.

Look, Lenny, she's been with that shitbird for six months,
this is not news.  It might be time for you to consider
moving on.  I hate to see you pining away like this... it
makes me want to vomit, frankly.  I mean sure, Faith was
by far the most outstanding woman a guy like you could
ever hope to get, but it's over.

Thanks, Max.

At the door, Iris slips inside and starts making her way
toward them.
She comes up to Lenny looking pale.  He and Max both greet
her.  Max asks her what happened to her eye.

Nothing, she says.  Lenny can I talk to you?

Sure, he says, meaning here and now.
No, I mean, just you.
Fuck me.  Max says and gets up, crossing the room to some
people he knows at a booth.

What's going on?  he asks.  You need money?  You want some
wire work?

Iris is nervous, evasive.
She tells Lenny she is being followed, watched... won't
tell him why.  But something's going on.  She needs his
help.  He's the only one she can trust.

He thinks her pimp beat her up.  He's seen this shit a
million times.  Doesn't have time for some strung-out
hooker's problems.

She says she put something in his car, that he needs to
see right away.  It's important.  She didn't want to come
in, because a lot of people know her here, but then she
decided she better talk to him now.

He asks her what's going on.  Not really paying attention,
scanning the room for business.  He waves to someone
coming in, that he needs to talk to.

She doesn't want to talk in the bar.  She needs to get
out.
She's starting to freak.
He finally realizes that he should be listening to her,
that however trivial her problems may be to him, she is a
human being and he should help her if it doesn't cost him
too much time or money.
She warns him to keep an eye on Faith, she may be in
danger, but can't tell him more.

Now she's got his attention.  Iris used to be a friend of
Faith's though they have moved far apart in recent years.

Lenny throws some money on the bar and takes her by the
arm.  They head for the door.  They can talk in his car.

As they go out the door Iris sees a Black-and-White pull
up across the street.  Lenny walks on, talking.  He turns
in mid-sentence...
Iris is gone.

He looks around.  Can't figure where she went.  He shrugs.
Just another strung-out street loser.  He forgets about
Iris a second later when he sees that a tow truck has got
his BMW on the hook.  What the fuck?

He runs to the guy... thinking it's some bullshit parking
thing.
Finds out the guy is a repo man.
The guy says Lenny's missed five payments and the car is
going back.
Lenny never figured they'd find him.  His apartment is
under another name.  Telephone is unlisted.  He takes his
mail at a P.O. box.

The repo man looks like a biker only meaner.  He jerks the
hydraulic lever and the BMW's front end comes off the
ground.  Lenny grabs the guy's beefy arm and the guy whips
around, putting a .38 in Lenny's face.

Lenny shouts Oh, yeah!  That's the answer, two million
years of human evolution and that's the best idea you can
come up with?

He calms down and starts working the guy.

Look, lets be human beings here.  You look like a guy that
doesn't mind playing it smart if he can do it clean?  Am I
right?  Look whatya get to pull in a car?  Two hundred?
Two fifty?  I'll pay you more not to.  I'm gonna give you
three fifty, right now.  All you gotta do is take if off
the hook and say you came by and your mark wasn't here.
Simple.  Make a few bucks extra.  Do a good deed.  Am I
right?

The guy's thinking.  You can tell by the way his little
piggy eyes turn into slits.

You got the cash on you?

I was going to write you a check, if that's--

The guy is getting into his truck.

Okay, I totally respect that call.  Cash makes sense.  I
got it right in there, right inside the bar, a buddy of
mine owes me... I can see you're pressed for time, just
give me two minutes... here keep my watch for collateral.
I go inside and cop the money, come right out.

He hands the guy his watch.

It's a Rolex.  Be right back.  Two minutes.

Lenny gets to the door of the Coral Lounge and looks back.
The driver is in his truck, pulling out of the lot.
Lenny runs after the truck, chasing his own car up the
street on foot, but he can't catch it.
Prick!!

Lenny walks back to the bar.  He sets his case up on the
trunk of a car in the lot and pops it open.  He takes out
a tiny digital cellular phone and dials a number.  While
it's ringing he takes another, identical pseudo-Rolex out
of the Haliburton and slips it on.

CUT TO a hand pulling a little digital cellular out of a
black jacket.  Follow the hand and phone to the face of a
black woman.  LORNETTE "MACE" MASON.  Late twenties.
Striking features.  Hair pulled back tight to her skull.
She is driving, but we don't see the car, or anything but
her face and some moving lights outside.

Hello?

Mace, what's goin' on?

Hey, Lenny.  Whatup?

Listen, Mace, I was wondering if you could swing by the
Coral.I gotta talk to you.

Mace smirks knowingly.

Yeah?  So what happened to your car this time?

BACK INSIDE Lenny is telling Max what happened.

					LENNY
		... so I'm trying to get this prick
		repo guy to drop it off the hook and
		he sticks a .38 in my face.

					MAX
		So?  D'ja pull your piece?

					LENNY
		I ain't carrying.

					MAX
		Man, I cannot feature that about
		you.  An ex-cop that doesn't carry.
		In LA?  It's embarrassing, compadre.
		I oughta not be seen with you.

					LENNY
			   (shrugs)
		I'm still on probation.  Can't
		afford to get popped with one on me.

					MAX
		Yeah, but you feel exposed?  Like
		your pants are down around your
		ankles?  I'd come unglued, myself,
		walking around the city.

					LENNY
		Naw, forget it.  He'll be at the
		impound yard by now.  And I don't
		have the dinero to bail the thing
		out anyway.

Max notices what's on the TV behind the bar and yells at
Bobby to turn it up.

It is a newscast about the killing of Jeriko One.  We see
file-footage of Jeriko and his band, the Prophets of
Light, from interviews and some of their videos.  The
story is about reaction among Jeriko's fans, who are
mostly black inner-city kids.  Jeriko One used his music
as a political tool, becoming an outspoken leader... an
opponent of the LAPD and the city government.

File shot Jeriko One at an outdoor rally.  Yelling that
their social programs are not working!  Their plan is not
working!  The mayor and the city city council sit up in
their offices, and their shit ain't working... these
people are rearranging deck chairs on the Titanic.  And
the millennium is coming... yeah, it's coming.  The big 2K
coming and when it does, there's gonna be a new day, and
not the one they thinkin' of!

We see that Jeriko One had a messianic quality, an aura of
almost religious power.  In the file footage the crowd is
going wild.
The shot is followed by one of the murder scene... cops
milling around, yellow plastic over the crumpled forms on
the ground.

Max hoists a glass to the end of the world.

Don't start, Lenny says.

See, that guy got it, Max says.  Before they capped his
sorry ass.  He saw the writing on the wall.  Nostradamus
got it, three hundred years ago.  He gave us until the end
of this century.  It's all coming down.  Look around man.
The system is collapsing... the criminal justice system,
the whole fucking economy is collapsing, not just here but
all around the world.

Max downs the shooter.

Every paradigm on Earth is falling apart at the same
time... every system, vision, constitution, revelation...
is breaking down.  Being toppled or abandoned... all at
the same time!  And you know what really scares me?
There's no new ideas.  Everything's been done.  Rock
music, punk music, rap music, techno, techno-Mex... long
hair, short hair... no hair.  Doesn't it feel like
everything's been tried?  Whaddya do that's new?
Something new in art?  Forget it.  Somebody somewhere has
done it.  Clothes, music... it's all been done.  How you
gonna make it another thousand years, for Chrissake?  I'm
telling you, it ain't happening.  We used it up.  It's
over.  You hungry?

They order some nachos.

OUTSIDE A BLACK LIMO pulls into the lot.  It is a
Continental armored stretch, downsized from today's
standards.  The door opens and Mace gets out.  She is
compactly built, dressed in black slacks and a
conservative black jacket.  Heavy rubber-soled shoes, like
cop shoes.  She glances around as she heads for the Coral
Lounge entrance, the unconscious sweeping gaze of a
security professional.

INSIDE, MACE looks around and spots Lenny and Max at the
bar, and goes over, greeting them both casually.  She
takes a big glob of Lenny's nachos and shovels them in her
mouth as she sits next to him.

Lenny asks if she can give him a ride to a couple of
places because his wheels got jerked due to some kind of
computer error at the bank which he won't be able to
straighten out until morning.
She says no way.
Mace tells him that she's already pulled a 12-hour shift
and she has one more quick pick-up and drop, and then
she's done for the day.
Says she's gotta grab some sleep.
It's gonna be a big night tomorrow night with all the New
Year's parties.

Lenny begs her, using all his charm and persuasion.
We sense that they are friends and that it is not the
first time Lenny has tried to suck her into his nocturnal
rounds.

What part of NO don't you understand? she says.

He offers her a percentage of the money he makes tonight.
Mace says she doesn't want his filthy money and we realize
she does not approve of what Lenny does for a living.
Finally she relents and offers him a ride to her next
pick-up, which is at the St. James in Hollywood, and he
can get a taxi from there.
He says sure and they leave together.

CUT TO MACE AND LENNY in her limo, on the road.  Lenny
sits up front with her while they cruise the night
streets.

We get a little background on Mace, and get the sense that
she has been friends with Lenny for some time.  He asks
about her son, ZANDER, who's five already.  Lenny likes
Zander.

They drive through the streets.  They see an unrolling
pageant of crime, cops, and urban decay.  More sense of
how far LA has fallen.  They go through a police
checkpoint, which resembles the border patrol highway-
stops south of San Diego.
Cops look in the cars with flashlights as they creep
through.

Mace glances at his Haliburton and starts giving him a
hard time about his work.  She met him when he was a cop,
and he seemed like a special guy, with some real insight
into people, and now he's just running around selling this
shit.  Breaking the law.
When Zander asks what he does she has to lie.

					LENNY
		Look, you just tell him I'm
		performing a humanitarian service.
		I probably save lives.

					MACE
		I wanna hear this part.

					LENNY
		Okay, some executive in Century City
		is bored with his life, bored with
		his wife, itching to cut loose...
		what does he do?

					MACE
		Picks up a hooker.

					LENNY
		Yeah, or he has a smokin' one-
		nighter with some girl he meets in
		the bar at a sales convention.  Then
		he goes around for months, paranoid
		that he's got AIDS, that he'll
		infect his wife.  He's torn up.
		Needs years of therapy.  And what if
		he really does catch something and
		totally destroys his life?

					MACE
		Price he pays for being a
		scumsucking pig.

					LENNY
		Everybody needs to take a walk to
		the dark end of the street once in a
		while, it's what we are.  But it's
		just now the risks are outta line.
		The streets are a war zone.  And sex
		can kill you.  So I sell this guy
		what he needs.  Almost as good as
		the real thing, and a lot safer.
		And it keeps him from jumping his
		tracks.

					MACE
		It's porno, Lenny.  Face it, you're
		a sleaze merchant.

					LENNY
		No, wrong... I sell experiences.
		All kinds of experiences.  Sexual
		experiences are just part of it.
		You put on the trodes in the safety
		of your ow home and you get to know
		what it feels like to ride with a
		gang, or get in a bar fight, or walk
		around in drag, or do the nasty with
		a thousand-dollar-a-night call girl
		or some shanky teen-hooker or a West
		Hollywood boy hustler.  Whatever you
		want.  You're safe from injury, safe
		from arrest, and safe from disease.

					MACE
		Buncha techno-perve jerkoffs.

					LENNY
		Man, you are so unenlightened.  My
		customers are people with a lot to
		lose... you know, they got high-
		paying jobs, high-visibility,
		professional status... some a them
		are celebrities...

					MACE
		Yeah, what celebrities?

					LENNY
		That guy from the news.

					MACE
		He doesn't count as a celebrity.  He
		does the weather.

					LENNY
		That counts.

					MACE
		Lenny, this shit's illegal.

					LENNY
		Well, it's a gray area.

					MACE
		It's not a gray area.  It's a
		misdemeanor area.  That's why I've
		had to come down and bail your sorry
		pale ass out of jail at two o'clock
		in the morning twice in the last two
		months.

					LENNY
		Look, it's not like I'm dealing
		crack here.

					MACE
		What's the difference?

					LENNY
		Okay, do me a favor, Mace.  Just
		pull over at the next junior high
		you see, would you, I have some
		bondage and S and M tapes I have to
		sell.

She pulls into the St. James Hotel and tells the doorman
she has a pickup.  A Mr. Fumitsu.  Lenny gets out with
his case and is standing next to Mace as her client, a
Japanese executive, comes out to the car.
Fumitsu tells her he is going to a nightclub on the west
side.

As mace is opening the limo's back door, Lenny brashly
shakes Fumitsu's hand and tells him he is from BLS (the
company Mace works for), and that he will be riding along
as part of their regular driver-evaluation program, if Mr.
Fumitsu doesn't mind.

It's routine, we do it every six months to make sure our
drivers are courteous and professional at all times, so
that VIP clients such as yourself are always treated as
honored guests.  Of course all our drivers are bonded
security specialists, trained in defensive combat, and
this car is fully armored, with bullet-resistant glass all
around.

Lenny pats the Lincoln with possessive pride.
Mace scowls at Lenny and gives him a look like "don't do
this" but Lenny just blusters on, telling Fumitsu to just
relax, and pretend he's not even here.  He'll just sit up
front and take notes.

Mace gets in and Lenny opens his case, pulling out a small
notebook.  He gins at her and she cracks up in spite of
herself.

Lenny turns to Fumitsu almost right away and begins
telling him about what an excellent choice he has made for
his evening's entertainment.  He asks if Fumitsu has ever
been to the club before.
Fumitsu, in broken English, says it was recommended to
him.
Lenny soon has worked the conversation around to another
club, called CLUB MONDO 2000, which might be even more
what the executive is looking for.  He actually talks him
into changing his plans and going to Mondo 2000.  Mace
rolls her eyes.  She can't believe this shit.
She's hissing at Lenny under her breath that he is going
to get her fired.

CUT TO a few minutes later.  Lenny is in the back with
Fumitsu.  They are laughing uproariously.  Lenny says
something in Japanese and they laugh again.  Fumitsu likes
him.  Lenny open his briefcase.  Winks at Mace in the
mirror.
Now she's pissed off.

CUT TO the limo pulling up at Club Mondo 2000.
Inside, Fumitsu is pulling off Lenny's playback trodes and
smiling.  Apparently the Japanese are very hip to the
playback world, and Lenny makes a sale right there.
Mace can't believe this shit.
She opens the door for Fumitsu and asks him if he wants
her to wait.  He says he will call for pickup.
Lenny give Mace a shiteating grin.
She waits until Fumitsu is out of sight and then grabs him
by the tie.
He is surprised that she is really angry.

She says every time she sees him, she feels slimed
afterward.
Their friendship is based on her doing favors for him.
And this stunt could get her fired.  Making an illegal
sale right in her car.

He tells her to relax.  The guy's having a great time.
He'll probably recommend her company to all his pals.

Mace is also pissed off because she knows why Lenny just
had to come to Mondo 2000...

Yeah, because I have business here, he says.

Uh huh, right.  It doesn't have anything to do with Faith
being here.

Oh, is she here?  he says innocently.

They hear shouting and look over at a scene a few yards
away.  Next to their armored limos two rich guys are
yelling at each other, drunk.  They are each backed up by
two or three bodyguards... "private security specialists."
Rich-guy posses.  One R.G. swings on the other.  The
other's bodyguards jump into it, grabbing the attacker.
Now the first guy's security guys have to jump in to
protect him.  Pretty soon the bodyguards are duking it out
and the two rich guys are standing back watching.

Lenny tells Mace he'll buy her a drink, now she's off the
clock.  She scowls but accompanies him inside.  She
doesn't know why she puts up with his shit.

Lenny and Mace enter the Club Mondo 2000.
They are greeted inside by two suited guys with metal
detectors.  Lenny and Mace barely notice as they are
scanned, it's so routine most places these days.  Mace
shows her gun, a Sig-Saur 9mm, and her state carry permit.
The security guys check her pistol like a coat, giving her
a claim check.

They walk in.
MONDO is upscale and chic.  Film types, music types, and
rich-fucks in general.  There is a bar, and a lounge with
live music.

Through the crowd in the lounge Lenny spots a particular
table.  It seems to be in a pool of light all its own.  Or
maybe this is just in Lenny's mind.  SLOW MOTION.  Lenny
watches a man at the table holding court, with a beautiful
young woman sitting next to him.
The man is PHILO GANT, record producer and manager.  He is
mid-thirties, with dark intense eyes, and long hair in a
ponytail.  He is severely handsome, and hiply dressed in a
studied eclectic-casual style.

The woman is FAITH JUSTIN.  We recognize her from the
playback as Lenny's ex-girlfriend.  But now we are seeing
a new "designed" Faith.  Her hair has been dyed jet black,
and frames her face in a wild tangle.  She is wearing an
expensive custom leather jacket over a sheer silk top
slashed almost to her navel.  She has on too much makeup,
which gives her features a strange feral-doll quality.
Faith looks like what she is, a rock-star wannabe.  But
the look is red-hot.

Gant and Faith are flanked on either side by an entourage
consisting of music types, various hangers on, and Gant's
personal security force of four.

Somebody says something to Faith and she turns slightly to
look at Lenny.  Their eyes meet for a moment.  Then she
coolly turns back to the conversation without a flicker of
acknowledgment.

Mace scowls at the tableau and pulls Lenny toward the
bar, reminding him that he is supposed to be buying her a
drink.
The following plays as they cross to the bar and sit down.

Forget her, Lenny.

She still loves me.

She thinks you're a bucket of dog vomit, Lenny.  Trust me
on this.

This is just something she's got to work through.  She's a
little confused about her life right now.

Whatever.

You don't understand what we have.

Had.  Not have.  See, have is present tense.

She's my destiny.

Your destiny?  What're you... living in a Hallmark card?
She's a hard-climber that dropped you like a used tampon
when she got a better ride.

You'll see.

The bartender slides down to them, greeting Lenny by name.
FRASER LOVEJOY looks like a model, which he occasionally
is when he's not tending bar at the 2000.  Lenny tells him
he may have a gig for him next week, that he'll give him a
call.

Lenny turns to look across the room at Gant and Faith.  He
says, Hey who's the new slab-o-meat in Gant's posse?

Mace looks at the massively built bodyguard seated near
Philo Gant and Faith.

That's Wade Beemer, he was a running back for the Rams in
'96 and '97.  He's been working security lately.  I've
seen him around.  Didn't know he was with Gant.

The Rams... that's football right?  Lenny says.

Fraser brings their drinks and says SKINNER was looking
for him earlier.  He points at a table nearby.  Lenny
grabs his drink and motions to Mace to follow him.

He crosses to the table and comes up behind Skinner, a
plump guy with thinning hair who dresses too young,
sitting with a pretty, stoned-looking girl and a young guy
with slicked back hair and gold chains who looks like a
freshman gigolo.

Skinner is a porno video producer.
Lenny greets him loudly as "The Skin Man" and slaps his
palm.
He fingers Skinner's coat.

Red leather.  Nice feminine touch.

Fuck you, Skinner laughs.

Lenny tells him he needs him to set up "a special."
A guy and two girls.  The guy wears.

Trent yawns.  There's an original idea.

Yeah, I know, Lenny says.  The girls have to be young, and
no big tits... French tits, you know, like a champagne
glass.  And my client wants it fast.

Trent pretends it's the last thing in the world he cares
to do.
Tells Lenny he needs an advance, to lock the talent.
Lenny says forget it, he'll get somebody else.
Skinner grabs his arm.

I'll have it Monday.  The usual price.

Page me when you got it, Lenny says.

Mace gets up.  She tells Lenny whenever he's done with his
squalid techno-perve business, she'll be waiting outside.
He's got ten minutes and then she's gone.

Skinner laughs at Lenny's uptight friend.  Lenny just
shrugs it off.

The Skin Man says he just finished a video shoot with a
couple of new girls, and he got them to do some squid
stuff afterward, if Lenny's interested.  Lenny shrugs...
sure.

Skinner hands him a tape and Lenny opens his overcoat,
revealing a playback deck clipped to his belt, next to his
pager.  He pops in the tape and glances around casually as
he pulls out the trodes.  He doesn't put the trode-set
completely over his head... he just sort of hunches over
the bar and touches a couple of the pads to his forehead.
"Sampling" the merchandise.
It looks like any drug buy in a public place.

CUT TO: POV of a woman writhing above us in ecstasy.
Lovemaking in point-of-view.
We look down, see our body, a woman's body... our hands
moving over the other woman's torso.
The image is dark, a primal impression.
The sound of harsh breathing, rustling sheets.

BACK TO LENNY, dropping the headset back in his pocket.
Yeah, I can use this, he says.  But tell the girl to move
her eyes slower next time.  It's pretty jerky.
Skinner shrugs.  Whattya expect, Marty fucking Scorsese?
It was her first time, Lenny.  Cut her some slack.

Skinner introduces the young guy, who has been watching
all this intently.  Says this is EDUARDO, the guy I was
telling you about.

Apparently Eduardo is going to wear in a "situation."

Lenny asks him if he's sure he wants to do it.  The guy
says you're going to pay me 200 bucks to put on a hair-net
and bang some beautiful girl.  I don't know.  I gotta
think about this.

Lenny gives him some pointers.  Like a coach before the
game.

Okay, Eduardo, some tips here.  Don't dart your eyes
around, don't do any crank or anything that will give your
eyeballs the jitters, it looks terrible.  Don't look in
the mirror, you ID yourself, then I gotta make an edit to
take it out, and it ruins the moment.  Plus the edits are
jarring.  Feels like getting slapped on the backside of
your eyeballs.  You got a half hour of tape.  So gimme a
little lead-in to the main event.  It works better if
there's a little tease.  But don't bore the shit outta me.
And most important of all... don't act natural.  Don't
fucking act at all.  Just completely forget the thing is
on and do your thing, or it'll be dogshit.  Trent, you
gonna wire him up yourself?

Yeah.

Okay, (to Eduardo) There's nothing to it.  Trent'll set
you up, put on the wig and all that.  Wash your hair
though, that fucking axle grease'll screw up the squid
receptors.

What's all this squid shit?

Superconducting QUantum Interference Device.  SQUID.  Got
it?

Yeah.  Uh, sure.

Don't forget it.  There's gonna be a test.  Just kidding.
Relax.  Okay, the receptor rig... the part that goes on
your head... sends an RF signal to the recorder.  It's
wireless.  See, we call it "being wired", but there's no
wire.  So stick it in your jacket pocket and then hang the
jacket over a chair next to the bed.  Or wherever it is
you're going to close escrow, know what I mean?

No problem.

A star is born, Lenny says.

CUT TO Lenny on the move, cruising through the crowd at
the Club Mondo 2000.  He just happens to pass Philo Gant's
table.  Pretends to see him for the first time.
Grant motions expansively.

Hey everybody, it's Lenny Nero.

Gant's right hand man, JOEY CORTO, smirks at Lenny.  Corto
is whipper thin, snappily dressed.  His Rolex is real.
Lenny the Loser, Corto says.

Philo gives a cold little grin and says (pointedly) Faith,
do you know Lenny?

Knock it off, Philo.  Hello Lenny.

Did you see Faith's video, Lenny?

The one with the water pouring down all over her in slow
motion?  Yeah.  I thought it was overproduced.  Faith's
too good, she doesn't need all that shit.  Any producer
with the taste God gave an amoeba woulda figured that out.

We can see that Lenny and Philo don't care for each other.
Gant and Lenny spar sarcastically.  Faith tells them both
to grow up.
She asks Lenny what he's doing here.

What am I doing here?  Excuse me.  I seem to recall it was
me who turned you on to this club in the first place.

Yeah, that's right, Lenny, Gant says, And you introduced
her to me here, as a matter of fact.  I never thanked you,
by the way.  So... thanks.  Now get the fuck out of here.

Hey Gant, too bad about your guy, Jeriko.  Tough break.

Fuck you, Nero.  Show a little respect.  The man was an
important artist.

Yeah, and a good seller for your label.  Which no doubt is
why you're in mourning.  But don't worry, his records'll
go through the roof now he's dead.  You'll make out.
Faith, can I talk to you a second?

I don't think that's a good idea, Lenny, she says.

Gant glances at Joey Corto and says, Joey, Nero was just
leaving, I thought.

Hey, I got something to say to her, alright?

Not alright.  Good seeing you, Nero.

You're pretty insecure, Philo, you worried about her out
of your sight for thirty seconds.  You know, trust is an
important element of any relationship. (to Faith) I just
gotta talk to you for one second.

We have nothing to talk about, Lenny.

Gant turns to Corto... Joey.  Wade.

Corto gets up, motioning to the bodyguards.  The biggest,
WADE BEEMER, covers Lenny with his shadow.  The second
bodyguard is a woman, CONSTANCE.  She is a massively built
bodybuilder, who contrasts her hulking frame with a low-
cut dress and pearls.  Like a woman imitating a drag-
queen, but definitely female... and somehow sexy and
terrifying at the same time.  The third bodyguard is
DUNCAN, a not-too-bright classic arm-breaker.

Faith, call me, okay?

No, Lenny.

It's not about you and me.  I just have to talk to you.

Corto motions to Wade and Duncan to grab Lenny.  Wade gets
him in a wrist-grip come-long hold and starts him moving
toward the back of the club.

As they are marching Lenny through the crowd somebody
coming the other way greets him.

Hey, Lenny.

Hey, Frank.  Listen I can't stop right now, but I'll call
you tomorrow about that thing we were talking about.

He's working the room even as he's getting dragged outside
to get the shit beat out of him.  Wade and Duncan take
Lenny out through the kitchen.

INSIDE, Faith turns to Philo and glares at him.

Leave him alone, Philo.

Relax, baby.  They're just gonna make sure he gets to his
car okay.

Corto moves off a few feet from the table and pulls out a
small walkie-talkie.  He gives Wade his instructions,
which Wade gets in his secret-service type earpiece.
Corto tells him to fuck Lenny up.
Ruin his New Year's.

OUTSIDE Wade leaves Duncan to watch the entrance to a dark
alley behind the club.  Wade walks Lenny back into the
shadows of the alley.  Lenny starts doing what he does
best... talking.

Hey, I recognize you.  You're Wade Beemer, right?  You
played for the Rams three or four years ago.  Running
back, am I right?

Beemer, who was about to go to work on Lenny, pauses.

Yeah, that's right.

I saw you play, man.  You were good.  Like a fucking
freight train, I remember saying.  So what happened?
Injuries or what?

Bullshit politics.

It's always politics, isn't it?

Lenny starts to negotiate.  Tries to get Beemer to cut him
loose.
Wade says he has to do what Mr. Gant says.
We see Lenny wheeling and dealing... trying to work it
out... says he'll pay him not to thrash him.  Write him a
check right now.  Nobody needs to know.  Wade won't take a
check in exchange for a beating.  Lenny gives Wade all his
cash.  Wade is philosophical.  Says, We all have our roles
to play... like nobody's doing anything to anybody... this
is just happening.

Lenny shrugs, says, I know.  But can we make a deal here?

Wade says, I have to do something or I'll get fired.  It's
not personal.  Maybe I can go light.  Stay away from the
hands and the knees.

Lenny agrees to the terms.  He takes off his Armani jacket
and hangs it nearby.  He asks Wade to watch the eyes.
Wade takes his first swing.

CUT TO Mace waiting out front.  She yawns and looks at her
watch.
Lenny walks up to her, limping.  He has a bloody nose.
She asks him what happened and he says, I tripped on the
stairs.  They oughta get some lights back there.  I should
sue.  Let's go.

CUT TO a NIGHTVISION VIEW of Mace and Lenny getting into
her car.
Burton Steckler, in plain clothes, lowers the surveillance
device from his eyes.  He is sitting in a car a block from
the club, watching.  As Mace and Lenny pull out he puts
his car in gear and follows.

IN THE CAR, on the way to his next stop, a party in
Hancock Park, Lenny asks Mace to stop so he can get in the
backseat.  Says it'll look better when he pulls up.  She
tells him if he wants to be back there, he's climbing
through the divider window.

Lenny gets in the backseat and stretches out in luxury.
Asks where the champagne is.  She doesn't think it's all
that funny.  Driving Mr. Lenny.

BACK AT THE CLUB MONDO 2000 we see Faith and Gant.  They
don't exactly seem like a happy couple.  Gant is clearly
unsettled by Lenny.  Wade comes back in and asks Gant
about Lenny, Who he is.
Gant says he's just a little weasel, a street hustler,
nobody.
Since he's new to this entourage Wade is doing his
homework, like any good security professional.

Then Gant gives a kind of 30-second profile on Lenny...
ex-vice cop, a surveillance guy... one of those snoopers,
always bugging people, wearing a wire, recording what you
say, going through your trash... a maggot.  He got into
squid recording and got hooked on the stuff himself, then
he got tossed off the force for dealing squid tapes after
hours.  Couldn't even make it as a cop.  Lenny the loser.
Panhandler of stolen dreams.

Coming from Grant it sounds pretty sleazy.  Of course he
is painting the most negative picture because Faith is
sitting there.  He's rubbing her nose in it.

How does he know you, Mr. Gant?  Wade asks.

Because Mr. Gant was one of Lenny's biggest clients, Faith
says.  Mr. Gant likes to watch, don't you, baby?  He used
to buy everything Lenny had to sell.  And the kinkier the
better.

That's right.  Especially the ones of you.

Yeah, you liked those, didn't you.  Probably even more
than the real thing.

That's not true, baby.  I'm much happier now that you're
mine.

He grabs her behind the neck and kisses her fiercely.  It
seems less like passion than a public branding.  She pulls
back.  Faith hates this, being treated like chattel.  Gant
treats her like a beautiful car, a Ferrari, something to
draw approving looks from other men... and something over
which he has total mastery and complete ownership.
We see at this moment that she does not love him, and that
he probably knows that.
But the game has its own inertia.
And they both play the game.
They both get what they need out of it.

Faith wants to get out of the booth.
She tells Joey Corto to move.

Where you going?  Philo says.

For a walk.  You mind?

Constance, go with her.

Alone.

Gant grabs her arm and grips it tightly, pulling her down,
close to him.

Look, what is this shit?  I'm not about to have you
wandering around by yourself.  Not with what's going on
right now.  Christ, use your head, Faith.

If you're so goddamn paranoid, maybe we should have just
stayed home in our little beds.

Yeah, that wouldn't look too suspicious, would it?

Will you calm down?  I'm going to the bathroom.  Is that
alright?  You need to give me a hall pass?

He lets her go.

FAITH walks down a corridor, right past the ladies' room
and into the kitchen.  She goes out the back door of the
club and walks around to the street.  She gets into a taxi
and tells the driver to head downtown.

She opens her purse and pulls out a handheld cellular.
Recalls a preprogrammed number and pushes send.

LENNY hears the phone ringing in his briefcase and answers
it.
He is surprised to hear Faith's voice.
She tells him to meet her backstage at the Retinal Fetish
later.  They can talk then.  She has a gig there tonight.
Her set starts at midnight.

Mace stops the car at a security checkpoint at the
entrance to Hancock Park, which is now a closed, gated
community.

I have a Mr. Nero for the party at 287 Briartree, Mace
tells the guard.  She has to really grit her teeth,
playing Lenny's hired driver.

They are waved through.  The license is stored by digital
video, and automatically logged by the guardstation
computer.

CUT TO LATER, AT THE PARTY.  Lenny is working the room.

It is a beautiful old Spanish, with a vaulted ceiling.
The crowd is LA entertainment mid-level, agents, lawyers,
junior executives.  A few creatives sprinkled through, as
seasoning.
This is prime turf for Lenny.
He is like the coke dealer of the early eighties.  The
backroom man, chicly dangerous.

We see him working from the OUTSIDE through the tall
windows.  Mace is in the courtyard with the car, having a
cigarette with the other drivers.  She watches Lenny
through the glass.  He didn't invite her in.  She knows he
is a pretender in that glittery world, an outsider, a
street guy like her... trying to rub up against a world
that is not really his.

She is his Sancho Panza, somehow loyal despite her best
instincts.  It may occur to us for the first time that
Mace secretly wishes Lenny would for once notice that she
is a woman.  But she is too cool to ever say anything.  If
he can't figure that one out for himself, forget it.

INSIDE, LENNY is talking to a society deb named JUDE
PAIGE.  She is a trust-fund baby, daughter of a Beverly
Hills doctor.  She is going to impress her jaded friends
by going out and copping some tapes from Lenny.

SITTING IN HER CAR, Mace is talking to her younger sister
by cellular.  CECILE is babysitting Zander at Mace's house
and wants to get going.  Mace says she'll be home as soon
as she can.  While she's talking Mace flips open Lenny's
Haliburton, which is on the seat next to her.  She looks
idly at the hand-written titles on the tapes.  A couple of
them say "Faith," followed by the date they were recorded.
Disgusted, she throws them down and latches the case.

Lenny comes out with Jude Paige.  He introduces Mace, but
Jude just thinks it's odd that he's introducing his driver
and doesn't even look at her.  Jude walks past Mace, and
gets into the backseat of the car with Lenny.  Mace gives
her an evil stare.  Lenny opens his case and goes to work.

He knows that these prim Beverly Hills third-generation
rich-bitches are all fucked up, with snakes eating snakes
in their heads, and the stuff they want is pretty kinky.
Power-trip sex, bondage stuff, hard action... and a
glimpse of a world they would be too terrified to ever see
for themselves... the world of the street.

He makes a sale and Jude goes back to the party.
Lenny tells Mace he has one more stop.
She says she has to go home.

He tells her it's on the way, more or less.  Just head
downtown.  The Retinal Fetish.  You know it?

Yeah.  Lenny, I know it.  It's that slime pit Faith sings
at.

Mace clenches her jaw and puts the car in gear.
As they pull onto the street, another car pulls out from
the curb, up the block behind them.  Steckler, still
following.

ENROUTE TO THE RETINAL FETISH, Lenny puts on the trodes
again.
He puts a tape marked "Faith 2/12/99" in the deck and
punches it on.

IN POV we experience another moment between Faith and
Lenny from almost a year before.  When things were still
good.
In it we see Lenny's POV of them talking.  Faith is
curious about the squid recording.  Lenny says he wants
her to try it out.  He wants to see what they are like
together through her eyes.  We see him turn off the record
deck.

TAPE RESTARTS.  We see the two of them standing together,
reflected in a mirror.  We are Faith now.
Is it on? she says, I don't feel anything.
Lenny tells her to forget it is there.

In the mirror we see that Faith has her hair pulled back
tight, and the squid array covers her head.  Lenny takes a
wild red wig and puts it on her, hiding the array.  She
laughs at the look.
He turns her to him.  They begin to make love.

Lenny begins to bliss out under the electrodes.
Mace is watching him in the rear-view as he plays back the
electronic memories of his true love, whom Mace can't
stand.  He's in love with a woman on a tape, and he
doesn't even see the one that's right in front of him.
Plus she knows he's hurting himself with all this
playback... getting strung out.  Caught in a loop.  Frying
his neurons.

Mace is pissed off, feeling used and abused.  Hates being
his squire.  She stops the car, pulling over on a
commercial street.  Lenny, under the wire, doesn't notice.
She walks back to his door and whips it open.  Punches her
finger down on the STOP button of his playback deck.

IN POV we see Faith's image fade into a burst of static.

Lenny opens his eyes, disoriented.  The afterimage of
Faith's face is replaced by Mace's.  Lenny sees they are
stopped.

					LENNY
		What's up?

					MACE
		Out of the car.

					LENNY
		Are you angry?

She grabs him by the lapels.  Jerks him out roughly.

					LENNY
		Hey, careful on the jacket.  This is
		Armani.

					MACE
		I've had enough of this shit.
		You're on foot, Lenny.

					LENNY
		In LA?  Are you crazy?

					MACE
		Call a cab.  I'm going home.  If I
		can remember where it is, it's been
		so long.

Mace gets in the car and peels out... but Lenny runs and
plasters himself on the hood.  Mace accelerates,
pretending she doesn't see him.

					MACE
			   (calling her
			    dispatcher)
		Six to base.

					LENNY
		Can I come in please?  I'm having a
		hard time hearing the stereo.

					DISPATCHER
		Roger, six.  You still have the
		client?

					MACE
		I'm making the drop-off right now.

Mace jams on the brakes suddenly, throwing Lenny off
(don't worry, she's not going that fast.) He scrambles up,
standing in front of the car.  She starts to move
forward...

					LENNY
		Wait!  Can we talk?

					MACE
		Lenny, don't try me.

					LENNY
		I need my case.  It's still in the
		back.

					MACE
		Get it.

He quickly moves, comes around the car and climbs in the
back door.  Lenny grabs his Haliburton but instead of
getting out, he leans through the divider window, next to
Mace.

					LENNY
		Listen, can we talk a little bit
		here, like two rational adults?

Mace hits a button on the dash.  The privacy divider rises
suddenly, pinning Lenny to the ceiling.

					LENNY
		That would be no.

					MACE
		I've had it.  No more of this
		wirehead pervo shit in my car.  You
		wanta jerk off your brain to some
		electronic 900 number, you do it
		somewhere else.  But not on my
		watch.

					LENNY
		Okay, you got my attention, but this
		is cutting off the circulation to my
		head, here.  D'you mind?

She lowers the divider, releasing him.  Lenny straightens
his jacket and tie.  Runs a hand through his greasy hair.

					LENNY
		I thought we were friends?

					MACE
		No.  See, a friendship consists of
		more than just one person constantly
		doing favors for another person.
		Lately, every time I spend time with
		you I feel like I've been slimed.

					LENNY
		Wow.  Really?

					MACE
		Look, Lenny, I got a kid, I got
		rent, I got an ex-husband someplace
		who doesn't send me a dime of
		support... I'm just trying to hold
		on here.  And you're always comin'
		along with you schemes and your
		slick act... well I'm not gonna get
		sucked in anymore--

					LENNY
		Okay, okay, fine, I understand.  I
		know I've been outta line.  It's
		just, whenever I'm in a bind, I
		think of you.  Because I know I can
		count of you in a jam, and that's a
		very rare thing... that kind of bond
		between two people.

					MACE
		See!  There you go running a line
		down on me again.  Damn, can't you
		just shutup for once and listen?

					LENNY
		Macey... I've never seen you like
		this.

					MACE
		You used to be a great guy, Lenny,
		but lately you've been turning into
		some kinda squid-head low-life
		bottomfeeder... and you're getting
		strung out... you don't even see it.
		You're always broke, you just go
		from one sleazy score to the next.
		I'm not going to hang around and
		watch you poach your brain--

					LENNY
		Playback is perfectly safe--

					MACE
		It's not, Lenny.  You know it's not.

					LENNY
		It's my business.  It's what I do.

					MACE
		Fine.  You want your frontal lobes
		to look like two runny eggs, it's
		fine with me.  Look, I gotta get
		some sleep.

					LENNY
		You still like me, don't you?  We're
		still buddies?

					MACE
			   (sighing, resigned)
		Yeah.  I don't see a way out of it.

					LENNY
		You feel better now?

					MACE
		Yeah.

					LENNY
		Macey, I know you're tired but can
		you drop me at the Fetish?  I'm
		going to miss her show.

					MACE
		Sure, Lenny.  The only thing worse
		than a junkie is a man in love.

Mace puts the car in gear.

CUT TO Lenny entering the pounding din of THE RETINAL
FETISH.

The place is a fringe hangout, converted schmatte factory,
and it is a warren of dark rooms and corridors off a main
dancefloor.  A thundering labyrinth.  Steel cage-like
partitions of a chain-link give the place a harsh,
concentration-camp atmosphere.  The music is a thundering
tech-thump, and the clientele are young and on the rough
side.  Techie ravers.  Cybergrunge.

There are many large video screens around, including some
large projection types, which are running a continuous
montage of wild graphics and images... a flurry of
disturbing videos (MTV via William Burroughs).

The Fetish is a street-tech hangout, a meeting place for a
lot of digital-underground types that Lenny knows.  Here
you can buy and sell illicit hardware and software, plus
chemicals for the wetware (brain).

Smart-drugs are used openly, everybody trying to turbo-
charge their neurons.  Jack up their neurotransmitters.

We see some of the looks that are popular in '99:

The Prole look, with Sinead O'Connor stubble heads and
baggy denim uniforms, with work boots.  The buzz-cuts and
pajamas give them a kind of Auschwitz-meets-Metropolis
look.  The girls dance with their work-shirts
unbuttoned... nothing underneath.

The Primal look: body-paint, face-paint, in primitive
designs stolen from a hundred primitive cultures, but done
with Day-Glo colors.

We also see mixtures of all the stuff currently out there
(kilts on men, leather jackets, bicycle pants, etc).
Costume ball masks and long gloves seem popular, on men
and women.

OUTSIDE, MACE is driving away when she sees a limo pull up
nearby.  Joey Corto, Duncan and Constance get out.  Gant's
goon squad, minus Wade Beemer.

Mace thinks for a second.  Then she swears softly.  She
reparks and goes into the club.

Lenny moves through the crowd.  He sees Tick and slaps
five with him as he passes.  Greets a few others.  This is
Lenny's turf also... the shadow side of his upscale
parties.  This is the tech underground, where Lenny's
street cronies bring him things.
This is where he buys, deals equipment, sets up "clips"...
wires people up to go out and forage the street for
illicit experiences.

Lenny moves on, away from the din of the main floor and
down trash-littered stairs to the basement.  The air is
rancid.

He enters a concrete connecting corridor, stepping around
a girl who is holding a guy while he pukes.

Lenny sees six members of a VIETNAMESE STREET GANG coming
toward him.  The leader is TRAN, who is in his early
twenties and the oldest.  Next to him is his 15-year-old
girlfriend, CINDY MINH, aka "VITA."  She is a slit-eyed
stone fox, very tough.  Tran is cool and relaxed.  Dialed
in.

Lenny greets them casually, calling them the Viet Cong.
He slaps Tran's palm and they get close to talk.  Tran
asks if Lenny has his money?  Lenny laughs and says no
problem.  He'll come by tomorrow afternoon.  Tran gives
Lenny a hard time, saying he's never going to front him
any more gear, but you can see they like each other.
There's no anger.

Tran is a hardware dealer.  A street tech pro.  He runs a
stolen high-tech parts rings.  Sets up Lenny's rigs.
Builds special stuff for him.  Tran thinks life is a
surreal parade.  His parents squatted in rice-paddies and
got napalmed.  He went to high school in Huntington Beach
and watched MTV.  He has no discernible value system
except personal survival.  And he keeps an open mind about
everything.
He is a smart-drug user.  He pulls out an inhaler, like an
asthmatic would use, and does a snort of vasopressin.
He's into brain enhancement.

MACE SEARCHES the crowd for Lenny.  Through the frenzy of
dancers she sees Constance, Duncan and Corto also moving,
scanning.

LENNY CLIMBS TO A LANDING overlooking the dancefloor.
Through chain-link he sees the swirl of activity below.
He goes to a door, and enters a tiny room crammed with
electronics gear.  It is the control room for all the
screens on the main floor.  Sitting at the center of all
the wires and tape-decks is TEX ARCANA, a friend of
Lenny's.  Tex whips around from one deck to another, his
hands flying.

He is in a wheelchair, which he pivots nimbly.
Tex gives Lenny a high five as he comes in and pauses in
his veejaying to take a belt from a hip flask.

					LENNY
		So, those rascals still haven't
		grown back yet, huh?

Tex looks under the blanket covering his lap.  Passes his
hand through the air down there.  Looks puzzled.

					TEX
		Nope.  Guess not.  Any day now,
		though.

Lenny opens his briefcase and hands Tex a tape.
Tells him it's a present.  No charge.
It's something he had made for him.
Tex pulls a squid-deck out of a drawer and sticks the tape
in.
He puts on the headset and pushed PLAY.

IN POV we are on a beach.
Early morning.  We are running.
Running flat out, with the wind.
Looking down... we are barefoot on the wet sand.
Foaming water races up the sand and breaks around our
strong male legs.
Looking up again, to see our running companion... a
beautiful lithe woman in shorts and T-shirt.  She laughs
and we speed up.
Seagulls flee before us, taking off in the dawn light.
An exquisite moment of pure life force.

TIGHT ON TEX'S FACE... as a tear leaks from the corner of
his eye.  He is smiling like he is listening to beautiful
music.

He opens his eyes and stops the tape.
Tex softly thanks Lenny.  We see the quiet magnificence of
Lenny's gift.  Lenny always knows what everybody needs.
Then Tex remembers something.
He fishes around in the clutter and hands Lenny a sealed
manila envelope with "NERO" printed on it.

Tex says it was just sitting in here when I came in.
No idea who left it.
Lenny tears open the envelope.  Inside is a squid tape.
It is completely unmarked.

Fan mail from some flounder?

Lenny shrugs and puts it in his pocket.

I'll check it out later.  I gotta get down there or I'm
gonna miss Faith's set.

LENNY GOES BACK DOWNSTAIRS, and is moving down another
smoky corridor when he runs into Mace.  She tells him that
Corto and Gant's goons are here.

You come back to tell me that?

I didn't want you tripping on the stairs again.

Lenny grins.  Busted.  He thanks her.  They move through
the strobing din.
It becomes a kind of tour of Hell.
They pass people doing playback.
Lenny shows her a side room, an unfurnished room with
crumbling concrete walls where emaciated ravers are
jacking-in directly to each other.
They use cheap Korean squid equipment to make a real-time
hookup.  Real overload stuff.  Nailing the pleasure
centers directly.  Very unhealthy.

Lenny shows her some input-junkies sprawled in a corner.
Using low-grade gear to run orgasm-loops.  Dangerous.
Very addictive.
They are immobilized, jerking spasmodically.
These are true wireheads.  Lost in blissed-out electronic
purgatory.

Lenny thinks of this as a demonstration to Mace that what
he does is a class act by comparison to these... the real
junkies.
He doesn't get it that it's all the same thing.

This place is a kind of crossroads for all the low-life
types.
A girl named NINA comes up to him.  She is young, with a
greyhound body, but her eyes are old, hiding in black pits
under her hair.

Got any work for me, Lenny?

He looks at her arms... bruised at the elbows.  Looks into
her jittery eyes.

Your pupils are really slammed down... you slamming again?
Sorry Nina, call me when you're cleaned up.

THEY MOVE ON, crossing the main floor toward the stage.
Lenny ask Mace if she knows that guy.
She turns and looks at a face in the crowd, watching them.
It is Steckler.  He looks away, casually.

No.  Don't know him.

He's been watching me.  And I think I saw him earlier
somewhere tonight.

THE STAGE LIGHTS COME UP suddenly and Faith is standing
there.
Like she beamed in.  She is wearing a revealing leather
outfit, showing a lot of her milk-white skin.  Her black
hair frames her eyes, giving her an intense feral look.

The band kicks down with a wall of thundering sound.
Faith explodes into motion.
It is stunning.  Her body convulses like a 440-volt
mainline is hooked up to her.  She wheels across the
stage, slashing her head up and down so that her hair
bursts in the strobe-flashes like flak.

Lenny is mesmerized.  He has seen this before, many times.
But it always has the same effect on him.  He is
transported into another world by her, a world in which
there is only the two of them, and she dances just for
him.

Faith starts to sing.  It is just an inchoate wail at
first, a police siren of a voice which descends through
all the registers to a fearsome growl, and then back up...
into notes of unearthly beauty.

She is really good.
A techno-erotic pagan.
She seems like a force of nature.

Maybe for the first time we see in her what Lenny sees...
her energy, her talent, the life force flowing strong
through her like a river.  Her movements are fierce and
unchoreographed, exploding toward the audience and then
folding in, as if wrapping around some deep inner pain.

The song is pure edge, dark, tortured.
A song of pain and loss in a speed-metal/industrial
concussive rhythm.
It is scary that such anger and hurt could explode out of
such a porcelain perfect face.  The pain and rage of an
entire tormented, hellbent planet raised to heaven in one
voice.

TIGHT ON MACE, her mouth open.  She's never seen Faith
perform.
Holy shit.  This ain't no Whitney Houston.

Faith doesn't play to the audience, or engage them in any
way.  She is merely taking what's in her head and letting
it out.  She could give a shit if they are there or not.
Faith... now the whirling dervish, spinning to the speed-
run of the lead guitar break.  Now shrieking into the
silence after a climactic downbeat, and holding the
note... holding it longer than you believe she possibly
could.  Then nothing.
When it is over she just drops the microphone and walks
away.
Fuck you.

CUT TO LENNY and Mace entering the rat-warren of corridors
backstage.  Lenny tells Mace to keep an eye on the goon
squad while he tries to find Faith on her break between
sets.

LENNY MAKES HIS WAY to an unmarked door and goes in.
Faith is inside.  It is not much of a dressing room.  A
cracked mirror and a bunch of boxes of cleaning supplies
filling half the room.
Faith is drenched with sweat.  Spent.  She is kicked back,
chugging a beer.
She drains it and looks at Lenny.  This is the first time
they have been alone together in real-time for many
months.
There is so much history between them, unspoken... held
captive in this moment.  Pain and the memory of joy.

Hi, baby.  I've missed you, he says.

Faith breaks the moment.  She turns away.  Shakes her hair
and sweat flies.
She grabs a towel and asks him what was so important that
he needed to talk to her about.

He says he wanted to ask her if anything was going on.  If
there was anything wrong.

She doesn't know what he is talking about.  She says this
is just another one of his ploys to get back next to her.
Faith turns to him.

					FAITH
		It's over, Lenny.  We've been all
		through this.  What's the point.
		You gotta get on with your life.

					LENNY
		Yeah, I know.  But you didn't answer
		my question.  Is anything wrong?

					FAITH
		No.

					LENNY
		So why would Iris tell me you might
		be in danger if--

					FAITH
		You talked to Iris?

					LENNY
		Yeah.  But she split before she
		could say what was up.  So what's
		up?

					FAITH
		Nothing.  Iris and I don't hang out
		anymore.  I haven't seen her in
		months.  So who knows what's going
		on in her head?

					LENNY
		I ain't buying it.  You wouldn't
		have called me back, had me come
		down here, if you didn't want to
		tell me something.

					FAITH
		I just... I wanted to tell you to
		stay away from me.  Philo's acting
		crazy.  Totally paranoid.  Having
		his guys watching me all the time.
		He even hired a P.I. to follow
		me... your pal Max.

					LENNY
		You're kidding.

					FAITH
		No, it's true.  That was about a
		month ago.  But now it's... worse.

					LENNY
		Look if you're afraid of Philo, cut
		him loose.  Pack you bags and get
		out.

					FAITH
		No, I can't.

					LENNY
		Why?

					FAITH
		If I leave now I lose everything.
		I've worked too hard, Lenny.  And
		it's finally starting to go... after
		all the scroungy club dates and
		bullshit and... and eating out of
		Styrofoam for weeks at a time, it's
		going.  It's happening.  The video's
		running, and we start the new album
		in a coupla weeks... Philo's got it
		all set up--

					LENNY
		Fuck Philo!  It's you that's up
		there on the stage, not him.  And it
		was me that got you your first club
		date... remember?  Back when we were
		both starving--

					FAITH
		I know, Lenny.  You used to make all
		your friends come so the crowd would
		be bigger.

					LENNY
		Faith, I watched you create yourself
		out of nothing.  You're like a
		goddamn cruise missile, targeted on
		making it.  And you will.

					FAITH
		Damn right.

					LENNY
		And you don't need this guy to do
		it.  Get out.  Now.  Tonight.

					FAITH
		No.  Uh unh.  I'm not gonna just run
		away.  This means too much to me.

					LENNY
		So you're gonna stay with a guy that
		you don't love, that you're afraid
		of--

					FAITH
		Lenny, I'm not afraid of him, it's
		you that should be afraid of him.
		You're gonna get hurt.  That's what
		I'm trying to tell you.  Just give
		up this quest of yours... give up on
		me.

					LENNY
		Can't do it.

					FAITH
		Give up on me, Lenny.  I don't love
		you.

					LENNY
		I don't believe that.

					FAITH
		Go.  Please.  I have to go on in a
		couple minutes.  I just need to be
		alone.

Lenny leaves her.  When the door is closed, she stares
after him.  She seems about to cry, holding herself back.
We see that whatever is going on in her head now, and
whatever game she is running, she did love him.

In the corridor Lenny shoulders his way past some rowdy
members of her band and some other scroungy music
riffraff.
He passes a figure hunched at a payphone.
Lenny stops and backs up.
The guy turns.  It is Max.

					LENNY
		Heard about your new gig.  When were
		you gonna tell me?

					MAX
		I was gonna tell ya.  Shit.  It's
		just a job.  I feel like shit.

					LENNY
		You should feel like shit.

					MAX
		Yeah, well you introduced me to Gant
		yourself, for chrissakes, at the
		party... which one was it?

					LENNY
		One of 'em.  Yeah.  That's nothing...
		I introduced Faith to him too.

					MAX
		A questionable move, given the
		historical perspective.  Look, this
		gig surveilling her... I figured I
		could take some of the prick's
		money, and make sure she was okay
		at the same time.  Do us both some
		good.

					LENNY
		And?  Is she okay?

					MAX
		I don't know man.  This guy's a
		complete control freak.  And he
		treats her like a piece of trash.
		It's not what you'd call a healthy
		relationship.  I think she's got a
		self-image problem, you ask me.

					LENNY
		So that mail-order psychology degree
		finally came, huh?

Lenny's cellular rings and he answers it.  Mace tells him
she's on the main floor but she's lost track of Philo's
goons.
They could be headed his way.

Lenny tells Max he's got to go.  He tells Max to stay on
Faith, because something might be going on.  Lenny says
he'll call him later.

CUT TO MACE moving through the crowd.  Frenzied bodies.
No sign of Corto, Constance and Duncan.

CUT TO LENNY coming down the back stairs.  He rounds the
corner at the bottom and... OH OH.  Joey Corto, Constance
and Duncan are right there, coming the other way.

They grab him and take him into a dank basement room.  It
is a large dark space, with rusted support columns and
years of accumulated junk.  Constance has Lenny's arm
twisted painfully behind him.  He can't break free.

Lenny, though he knows it's hopeless, starts his routine.
He's getting to the part where he writes them all a big
check when Constance slams his back up against a column
and gut-punches him.
Lenny struggles but he is no match for Constance's
strength and fighting skill.  She works him expertly, with
a series of painful jabs.
He deflates and sags to his knees.
Corto laughs.  He gets a charge out of Lenny getting the
shit kicked out of him by a girl.

Constance grab him by his hair and pulls him up with one
powerful arm.  She is cocking back the other arm for a
pile-driver punch when...

Suddenly a dark shape materializes behind her.
Mace drives Constance head first into the steel column.
Duncan lunges in and grabs for Mace.
This is a mistake.
Mace doesn't fight fancy.  And she doesn't fight fair.
She fights to win.  And she is awesomely fast.
Her moves are street moves, coupled with arm-locks and
come-alongs she has been trained to use as a security
driver.

Lenny recovers enough to get some licks in on Constance,
who is still a little stunned.  She has blood dripping in
her eyes and can't see too well.  He calls her a Hell Dyke
and gets her to charge, then breaks a dusty old chair over
her head.

Mace drops Duncan about the time Constance is hitting the
ground, leaving...
Joey Corto, who fumbles out a Beretta 9mm and sticks it in
Mace's face.
He sniggers, loving the upper hand.

Safety's on, she says.  So, like a jerk, he looks.

She snaps sideways in a headfake and closes blindingly
fast, twisting the gun out of his hand.  She continues to
twist his wrist brutally and Corto goes down to one knee,
groaning.  She takes his Beretta and backhands the barrel
hard across his face.
Mace releases his wrist and he crumples in a heap.
She and Lenny back out the door.
Then Lenny runs back in and kicks Corto in the ribs.

Lenny!  Mace grabs him and pulls him out of the room, then
slams the heavy metal firedoor behind them.  She locks it
with a piece of junk wedged behind the release bar.

They walk quickly along the corridor to an exit into the
alley behind the club.  Mace is disassembling Corto's
Beretta without looking at it as they walk.  She drops
pieces in dumpsters as they go.

Lenny brushes himself off and checks his jacket for
damage.  Mentions how the fabric is really great.  Never
takes a wrinkle.  It is a metaphor for him.  He keeps
getting folded the wrong way and manages to bounce back.
Teflon.  Nothing sticks.

Mace asks him if he ever wondered why he gets beat up a
lot.
He never really thought about it.
She offers him a ride home.

LENNY AND MACE ON THE DRIVE TO HIS PLACE.  They are
relaxed and easy.  She offers him a belt from her tiny hip
flask.

					MACE
		Lenny Nero.  You're some piece of
		work.  You're just calmly
		backstroking around in the big
		toilet bowl, and somehow you never
		let it touch you.  Like some kinda
		Teflon man.

					LENNY
		Thank you.

					MACE
		I mean, the man's seen it all,
		right?  Between working Vice and
		your current so-called occupation,
		you must've seen every kinda
		perversion.

					LENNY
		Every dark need.  Every wrinkle in
		the human brain.  I have crawled
		through the gutter of sexual
		dysfunction.

					MACE
		What I'm sayin'.  But you still
		manage to be this goofball romantic.
		What is that, some kinda defense
		mechanism?

					LENNY
		It is my sword and my shield, Macey.

Lenny finds the anonymous tape in his pocket.
He looks at it, puzzled.
Mace asks what it is.  He says he has no idea.
He opens his briefcase.  Pops it into the deck.
Settles the trodes on his head.
He punches PLAY and closes his eyes.

POV SEQUENCE: This will be intercut between the actual POV
and Lenny's reactions as he mentions some of what he is
experiencing to Mace, sitting next to him.

The first thing we notice is that the POV is distorted
visually.  The colors are de-saturated.  Almost black and
white.  Yet the detail is crisp and clear, almost hyper-
real.

WE ARE WALKING down a hallway at a large hotel.  An
apparently endless row of doors.  No sense of whether it
is night or day.
The Wearer's glance goes to the numbers on the doors from
time to time.  We come to a particular door.  There is a
DO NOT DISTURB sign on the door.  The Wearer moves to the
next door.
Looks both ways.  The corridor is empty.

It's a test-pattern so far.  Lenny says.

"Our" hands appear, quickly pulling on latex surgical
gloves.  They look like male hands.  The snapping of the
rubber is the only sound in the corridor.
The POV hunches down to the lock and we see the hands go
to work with lock-picking tools.  Several seconds and the
lock is very professionally picked.

Okay, we got a little B and E action now, Lenny says to
Mace.

We enter the dark room, which is vacant.
The drapes are open and we see city lights.  It is night.
One gloved hand picks up the guest directory and looks at
it in the moonlight coming in the window.
The SUNSET REGENT.

The Wearer drops the directory and the hands reappear
holding... a black ski-mask.  He pulls it on, leaving the
subsequent POV seen through the eye-holes of the mask.
The Wearer now looks up into a mirror on the dresser.
He has avoided his reflection up until now.  We see a man,
dresses in a jogging suit and black fanny-pack, and of
course the ski-mask.  Totally anonymous.

Hey, this is getting interesting, Lenny says.  This guy is
good with the suspense.

The Wearer climbs the railing and, six stories above the
pavement, slips around the wall, stepping down onto the
other balcony.  We hug the wall, looking furtively into
the room.  It is a suite.  In the living room we see a
woman making herself a drink at the mini-bar.
She turns...

It is Iris.
She is wearing a T-shirt and panties.  Probably ready for
bed.  She looks like she can't sleep.  Pours the Scotch
shakily.

CUT TO LENNY, the streetlights washing across his face.
He gets suddenly serious with a flash of premonitory
dread.

IN POV we see Iris go into the bedroom, out of sight.  We
can hear the television on in there.  Using a steel jimmy
the Wearer slips the latch on the balcony slider and
silently opens it, slipping inside.
We stalk quietly to the bedroom door, listening to her
movements.
Water running in the bathroom.
We come around the doorframe.
Bedroom dark, bathed in TV glow.
Iris in the bathroom, washing her face with cold water.

We move toward her.
Crossing the room as she reaches for a towel.
We are now only a couple of feet away.
She comes out of the bathroom, walking right past us,
drying her face.
She lowers the towel, turning away... her eyes whip back.
Widening in terror.
She reacts with surprising speed, diving across the bed.
We go after her.

Her hand goes under the pillow and comes out with a small
automatic pistol.  She whips it around toward us but we
grab it before she can fire and twist it away.
She smashes the palm of her hand into our face and rolls
off the bed.
All this happens lightning-fast.

We follow her as she scrambles up, running through the
bedroom door.
Across the living room and down the short hall to the
front door.
Closing rapidly on her as she somehow gets the chain off
the door and gets out into the hall.

Slam!  We tackle her against the far wall of the corridor.
Our right hand comes into view holding a small electric
stunner.
Zap!  We nail her right in the back, between the shoulder
blades.
She sags to the floor, gasping.  We zap her again.
The Wearer's glance does a 180 both ways down the
corridor... nobody in sight.
We clamp our hand over Iris' mouth and drag her back into
her room, locking the door.

ON LENNY, reacting.  Going white.  What is it?  Mace says.

WE ARE DRAGGING a semiconscious Iris into the bathroom...
propping her up with her back against the white tile
wall... grabbing her hands and handcuffing them one by one
to the steel towel rack above her.
She is moaning, stunned.  Crying now.

I don't have it, she says, then something else we can't
quite make out.  She is hardly able to draw a breath to
talk, let alone scream.

I haven't seen your face... I haven't heard your voice...
you can still let me go--

ZAP!  The Wearer hits her with the stunner again.  She
jerks and gasps for breath.  We see our latex-gloved
finger come up in front of us and hear SSSHHH.

Moving quickly now.  Our hands unbuckle the fanny pack and
lay it on the floor next to her.  Unzip it.  Pull out
something... a set of playback trodes.  Our hands place
them on her head.  She stares uncomprehending.  What?

We catch a glimpse of some electronics stuff inside the
pack... a record deck, some wires, a small metal box.

What's he doing?  He's jacked her in to his own output,
Lenny says, She's seeing what he's seeing.  She's seeing
herself.

Iris can now see herself as the Wearer sees her... wide-
eyed with terror, white-lipped, weeping.  Helpless.  And
she can feel what he feels.
The Wearer's hand goes back into the fanny-pack and pulls
out something else.  A black athletic headband.  We slip
it over her head, down over her eyes.  A blindfold.
Now she can only see what the Wearer sees.
And also from the bag we pull...
A yellow plastic object.  With our thumb we extend the
five inch blade of the razor knife.  It is the type with
the tips that can be broken off by segments when they get
dull.  It extends with an ominous clicking sound.

We lower it toward her and cut up the middle of her T-
shirt, laying it open.  Exposing her torso.  We then look
down and slide the knife under the side band of her
panties, slicing them off.
We put the knife up to her throat, and she whimpers,
afraid to cry out, and then we draw the flat side of the
blade down across her body as if to tease her with the
prospect of her death.
Lenny is feeling the stalker's exhilaration, pounding
heart, flushed skin, panting breath, and Lenny knows that
Iris is feeling the same thing, overlaid with her own
senses... so the excitement and terror merge into one
thing, one overwhelming wave of dread sensation.

MACE LOOKS AT LENNY'S EXPRESSION of dawning horror and
pulls the car to the curb.  It is a commercial street,
with rows of closed stores.  Nobody around.
Lenny is hyperventilating, shifting in his seat as if ants
are crawling over him.

IN POV we see the Wearer pull his jogging pants down below
his knees (R-rated please) and reach for Iris.
Kneeling in front of her, he pushes her legs apart and
pulls her hips forward onto him.  Though it is below
frame, we can tell that he is pushing into her.
Iris is feeling and seeing what he sees and feels...
She feels what the attacker feels as he slides inside her,
her pain and humiliation swirling with the killer's
exhilaration.

ON LENNY, sweating and barely able to breathe.
Mace stops the tape... concerned by Lenny's reaction.  He
opens his eyes... Mace sees the fear there, of what the
tape may reveal.  She knows something really serious is
going down on the recording.  Lenny can't describe it.
But he has to go on.  He has to know.
He pushes her hand away and punches PLAY.

IT FLOODS INTO HIS HEAD AGAIN.  The sweaty, grunting
horror.
The stalker picks up her slit T-shirt and quickly wraps it
around her neck.  He knots it tight and twists one
powerful hand into the knot.  The muscles in his forearm
look like cables as he turns the knot tighter.
As the stalker is about to come he viciously twists the
knot a full turn and the T-shirt fabric almost disappears
into the skin under her jaw.

Via her trodes, Iris watches herself die.
Her death comes at the moment of his orgasm which is fed
to her... the two most powerful and profound moments in
life, essential opposites, fusing into one thing...
blasting off the planet on total overload... terror, pain,
death merging with ecstasy and exultation at the same
instant.

ON LENNY, crying out and grabbing for the trodes, but he
just holds onto them, as if they are sucking his brains
out of his skull.
Oh my God, is all he can say, over and over like a mantra.

BACK TO POV, a glimpse of the Wearer's hand relaxing the
knot.  Iris' head lolls.  Her mouth is slack and open.
We remove her blindfold.  Her eyes are half-lidded.  Very
dead looking.  Our fingers gently push them wide open.

BACK TO LENNY, looking like he has been gut kicked.  He
gasps for breath.

TO POV, as the killer's hand calmly moves Iris' head from
side to side... studying her dead face.  Her staring eyes.
The killer's hands form a frame with thumbs and
forefingers... he is framing her face with his hands like
a director lining up a closeup.
He leans very close to her and stares into one dead eye,
the pupil wide, seeing nothing.
A burst of static.  End if tape.

Lenny opens his eyes.  He fumbles open the car door and
practically rolls out onto the sidewalk.  The trodes pull
off his head as he lurches up, reeling across the sidewalk
to a darkened storefront where he leans for support.  He
doubles over and heaves up the contents of his stomach.

Mace circles around the car and catches him as he sags to
his knees.
She holds his shoulders while he throws up again.
Lenny tries to tell her what he just experienced, but he
can barely find the words.
He tells her it is a snuff clip... a black-jack.
It is the worst he has ever experienced.  And the
madness... of wanting to show the victim her own death,
while recording that reaction... and then further madness
of giving the tape to him, like a little present, sharing
that horrible intimacy of rape and murder with another...
so sick, so psychotically scopophilic.

Lenny is shocked to his soul.  This would be the worst
thing he had ever seen and felt even if it wasn't someone
he knew.

Are you sure it's real? she asks.
Yeah.  He's sure.  He's seen some that were faked.  But
you can tell.  This one had no cuts.  No way to hide the
blood tubes and stuff.
This was real.

Lenny gets up and says they have to go to the hotel.
It's only a couple of minutes away from where they are.
They pull up to the hotel and there are cops everywhere
and they are just loading Iris into the coroner's van.

Drive on, Lenny says.
He calls Max via cellular, catching him still at the
Retinal Fetish.  Max says Faith just left with Gant's
goons and I'm off for the night.  Lenny tells him to meet
him at his house ASAP.

CUT TO the three of them at Lenny's apartment.
Max, the hardened homicide detective, is removing the
trodes with shaky hands.  His face is gray.  He doesn't
say a word.  He grabs the tequila bottle from the table in
front of him and takes a long chug.

That is one sick fuck, he finally says.

He offers the playback trodes to Mace who declines.
Lenny is still shaken by what he experienced on the tape.
On top of which he feels guilty.
Iris had come to him for help.  And he had shined her on.
He should have read it better.  Known something was wrong.
But at the time she just seemed like another strung-out
hooker having a bad night.

But... it's like she knew she was going to die.

Max and Lenny have seen plenty of what the city has had to
offer over the years in the way of sickness and death.
They start to let the professional cop reflexes take
over... to analyze the killing.

Max comments on the twisted idea of showing the girl her
own death through the killer's eyes using the squid deck
and some kind of real-time hookup.  Lenny says yeah, he
must have been using some kind of splitter box, sending
the signal to the recorder and to her at the same time.

This guy is really damaged goods, Max says.

Or that's what he wants us to think, Lenny says.
Lenny thinks maybe the guy wants to make it look like he
is some kind of psychotic sex killer... a psycho John...
which explains why there was no attempt to dispose of the
body and clean up.
It would be important that Iris be found as she was
killed, handcuffed, with sperm at the scene, etc.
Forensics will conclude it was a trick gone wrong, she is
a known call-girl... they will write it off quickly.
Hookers are always getting whacked by psychos and serial
killers.  The cops give up fast on cases like this because
the usual process of getting information on the street
doesn't work, these guys act alone... and anyway society
at large doesn't give a rat's ass about a dead hooker.

Max says, Yeah, it's all about what it looks like when you
walk into the scene.  The homicide guys will see a sex
killer, they won't look beyond that, because that's what
the scene says to them.  They walk in... you got a dead
hooker, handcuffs, semen present... they know they'll
never find the guy.

Max and Lenny go through the crime scene, what happens in
the tape, etc.
Max says, It could go either way... a true sex killer, or
somebody who knows enough about it and is cold-blooded
enough to make it look that way, to disguise the crime
which actually has another purpose... like to shut Iris
up.  Maybe this guy's not crazy at all.  Just wants us to
think he is.

Mace says, Wait a minute, here.  This guy might have some
kind of real motive, but if he could think of what's on
that tape, and go through with it, then he's still a
raving fucking psychotic.

Okay, fine, Lenny says pacing, he's a psychotic who
thinks he's sane pretending to be a psychotic.  But what's
going on here?  Why was Iris at the hotel?  Was she
meeting a regular or was she hiding out?  And what was it
she was trying to tell me earlier?  And why would the
killer give the tape to me?

Mace lists what they know:
Iris is raped and killed the same night she comes to Lenny
for help.  She appears paranoid and says that Faith is in
danger.  She later is at a hotel, possibly hiding, but the
killer knows where she is.  And the killer knows Lenny,
and knows where to find him, to get him the tape.  And the
killer knows how to use squid recorders and playback
equipment.

Lenny says he know about a hundred people that fit that
description.  That's the problem, Max says, Lenny know
everybody.  And if it has something to do with squid
recording, sooner or later it washes up on Lenny's beach.
'Cause Lenny's the man.  The Magic Man.

Maybe the tape was given to Lenny so it would get copied
and distributed... the guy doesn't know Lenny doesn't deal
in the stuff... figures it could become some kind of snuff
top-ten hit.  A kind of bragging.  Sharing with the other
sick fucks.

Or maybe it's a message to Lenny, Mace says.  But what?
Lenny tells Max he thinks he's being followed.
Max dismisses it.
Says Lenny is always paranoid.  That's what comes from
being in the watching game.  After a while you're
convinced someone is always watching you.

Lenny is primarily concerned with what the connection
might be to Faith.  He's afraid for her.  Faith and Iris
have been friends for years.  Lenny met them on the street
back in his Vice days, when Faith was just another
runaway.  The usual teen tragedy.
And recently Iris has done the occasional clip for Lenny.
Meatwork.  Nothing too kinky.  She was off the streets,
working out of her apartment in Silver Lake, trying to
build a reputation as a classier act.  Faith sort of cut
her off when the music thing started to happen.  Didn't
want the connection.  But Iris was always loyal to Faith.
Admired her from afar.  Someone from the street that was
making it.

Mace says they have to get the tape to the cops.
Lenny says no... he wants to study it.  Those bozos
wouldn't know what to do with it.
Yeah, that's best, Max says.  If Lenny calls the cops,
he'll get busted for possession of illegal electronics
gear.  A third offense.  Definite jail time.  Anyway, I
know all those guys, so I can find out if they come up
with anything... I'll just tell them she was a friend of
mine and they'll keep me in the loop.  Get me the
forensics reports and all that.

Max leaves.
Lenny calls Faith.  We see the phone ringing in Philo
Gant's luxurious house in the Hollywood Hills.  A total
contrast to Lenny's ratty digs.  Joey Corto answers the
phone.  He has stitches on the bridge of his nose, which
looks broken.
Lenny asks to speak to Faith.  Says it's her brother.

Corto calls to Faith, who is in the kitchen.  She crosses
the living room, looking out of place.  She is still
wearing her outfit form the gig earlier, and it contrasts
with the polished marble and glass of Gant's house.  There
is a fire burning in the fireplace, and its light flickers
over all the glossy surfaces.
Faith answers the phone.

Lenny tells her that Iris is dead.
She is shocked.  What happened? she says.

CUT TO PHILO GANT, listening on another line.  He is in
his den, watching Faith on one of the many video
surveillance monitors.  Philo does like to watch.

Lenny is asking Faith if she knows why Iris was staying at
the hotel instead of her apartment when Philo appears next
to Faith.
He takes the phone from her and tells Lenny it's past his
bedtime.
Hangs up.

Faith tells him that Iris was murdered.
Gant's expression is hard to read.  He doesn't seem
surprised.
Faith makes an intuitive leap.  She says, You already
knew, didn't you?  What the fuck is going on?

He tells her to quit being so paranoid.  Of course he
didn't know.  And she better stay the fuck away from Nero.
An argument erupts.  We see that Gant is unstable,
trembling with pent-up rage.  Or is it fear?
He sweeps all the glasses off the bar.
They shatter on the polished marble floor.

She says she will talk to or see anyone she wants, anytime
she wants.

He slaps her hard, without warning.
She falls to the floor, amid the broken glass.

Gant walks out.
Faith is left in the elegant living room, surrounded by
black marble and glass, with the lights of the city below.
She has come far from the street.  She is living in the
dream she imagined for herself, but it has become a
nightmare.  Gasping for breath, she picks herself up and
slowly crosses the beautiful room.

CUT TO LENNY under the wire.  He is playing back the tape
of Iris' death.  Mace is watching him, making notes when
he says something.
He stops the tape suddenly and rewinds, playing back a
section again.
Talking to himself... to the killer inside his head.

In POV the killer enters the vacant hotel room.  He passes
the mirror on the dresser.

Lenny plays it back again... trying to will the killer to
turn.

You know there's a mirror right there and you're keeping
your eyes off it, you fuck.  You know what you're doing.
You've worn before.  Who are you?

He goes back and forth, back and forth, through different
sections.  Mace paces nervously, watching him.  She can't
stand to watch him burn his brain like this.
Lenny pulls the back off the record deck and uses a black-
box amplifier to boost the gain.  The signal is now
stronger.
Clearer.
More like he is there.  He can feel more.  He is inside
the killer's head.
This is dangerous shit.  The playback equivalent of speed-
balling.

With the boosted gain he is overloading his own cerebral
cortex with sensation... hoping for a clue, a revelation.
Trying to push through the veil of identity.

He runs the death-tape again, barely able to talk,
straining like he's lifting a grand piano.  Mace finally
can't stand it anymore and jerks the trodes off his head.
Lenny gives up.  He sags back on the couch.
He rubs his eyes.  He is seeing ghosts, afterimages burned
into his visual cortex.  The room is alive with them.
Iris' terrified face floating iridescent on his living
room wall.
The whole room seems to shimmer.

You okay?  Mace asks him.

Starting to get the jaggies, here.

He tries to stand, but he is unsteady.
Mace helps him to the kitchen sink where he runs cold
water over his head.  He washes four Tylenol down with a
shot of tequila.

CUT TO LATER.  Lenny is collapsed on the couch.
His head is in Mace's lap.
He is deeply asleep.  She looks down at him, gently
brushes his hair off his sweaty forehead in an
unconsciously maternal gesture.
Mace gazes at Lenny's sleeping face.  She has an
unexpected moment of realization... somehow, improbably,
she loves him.
Mace sighs and leans her head back against the wall.
Go figure.

CUT TO MACE pulling her limo into the driveway of a modest
stucco house in Inglewood.  It is dawn.  Her neighbor is
walking the dog.
She goes inside.
CECILE, her younger sister, is still asleep on the couch,
wearing her clothes.  ZANDER, her five-year-old, is up
watching TV in his pajamas, eating Cheerios.  She goes to
him and hugs him.
You got to stop pulling these allnighters, Mom, he says.

2:20 PM, DECEMBER 31

Lenny wakes up to the sound of the phone ringing.
He is on the couch, still clothed.  He hears Max's voice
on the answer machine and grabs the phone, his head
obviously pounding.  His jaggies have faded, leaving only
the headache.

Max tells him that he did some checking at the station and
Iris checked in under a false name.  She paid cash.  Said
she was staying a couple of days.  Looks like she was
hiding out.  The cops don't have any real leads.  Nobody
saw or heard anything.

Where's Faith?  Lenny says.
She hasn't left Gant's house yet today, Max says.  He's in
his car, staking out the house from up the block.
Stick to her, Lenny tells him.

As he is hanging up he notices something.
A manila envelope stuck between the steel bars and the
glass of his front window, next to the door.
"NERO" is printed on the envelope.

Oh shit.
He opens the door, looking both ways.  No one is around.
He fishes out the envelope from behind the bars and takes
it inside.
Of course it contains a tape.  He stares at it with dread.

Lenny sits down and puts the tape in his playback deck.
He picks up the trodes and places them on his head.  He
notices his hands are shaking.  He takes a deep breath and
punches PLAY.

POV SEQUENCE: DAY.  As expected we see the de-saturated
signature of the killer's vision.  The Wearer is walking
through the courtyard of Lenny's apartment building.  We
recognize it by the unkept pool, the sunken deck
furniture.  We walk through a breezeway to an alley-like
courtyard behind the building.  We approach a door... the
back door to Lenny's apartment.

The killer picks the lock on the back door.  Opens the
door and enters.  The apartment is dark, blacked out.  We
are in the kitchen.  We stop and listen.  Water dripping
in the sink.  Soft snoring from the living room.

Moving to the other room.  Slowly, silently.  Furtively
looking around the doorframe to the living room.  There is
Lenny, crashed out on the couch, sawing logs.

Now moving stealthily toward him.  Kneeling down beside
him.  Lenny, burned out from the night before, is deep
under.  Our hands come into view, holding the yellow
plastic razor knife.  With his thumb, the killer extends
the blade... click, click, click, click.  Lenny snores on.
The blade flashes in a beam of sunlight as it moves toward
Lenny.
The killer lays it gently against Lenny's throat.  Draw it
slowly across... not leaving a mark.
The POV backs away and--
Static as the tape ends.

LENNY, IN THE PRESENT, whips off the trodes, freaking.
He feels around his throat with one hand... can't feel
anything.
Crossing quickly to a mirror near the front door, he
inspects his neck minutely.  There is a hair-fine red line
over his carotid.
He looks around the room wildly, his heart hammering.
Slowly, he gets his breathing under control.
Fuck, he says in a long slow exhalation.
Then... he hears something in the kitchen.  A tiny click.

His eyes go wide.  Hyperventilating, Lenny moves quickly
to a cardboard box full of junk.  He fishes around in it,
under a bunch of papers and junk, and pulls out a GLOCK 23
.45 auto pistol.
He stalks silently toward the kitchen.
Then he looks at the butt of the pistol-grip and sees
there is no magazine.
He un-stalks back to the box and finds a loaded magazine
under a bunch of unpaid bills.  He inserts it quietly,
wincing as he chambers a round.  It clicks as it feeds in.

Heart thudding, he works his way to the kitchen door.
He edges around the frame, pie-ing the room, pistol at the
low-ready position.

Mace is sitting at the kitchen table, giving him a funny
look.
She is drinking a cup of coffee, made from the jar of
instant on the counter.  She is dressed casually in
bicycle pants, work boots and oversized nylon jacket over
a tank-top.

W'sup Lenny?

He deflates, lowering the gun.  His hands are shaking.

Jesus, Mace!

I knocked but there was no answer, she says.  The back
door was open so I came in and saw you were under the
wire, so I made coffee.  You look bad.  What's going on?

CUT TO Lenny throwing stuff into a folding bag.  He is
wired on adrenaline.  He tells Mace not to talk... the
place could be under audio surveillance.  He is really
cranked on paranoia.  He grabs some clothes, and a box of
.45 hollow points.  He puts them in the bag along with a
playback deck.
He asks mace to hand him his shoebox full of Faith tapes.
She hands it to him with distaste.
Lenny is about to zip the bag when he decides he doesn't
like the tie for the jacket he's picked.  Goes back to the
bedroom and switches it.  Even fleeing for his life there
are certain lines he won't cross.
Last, Lenny grabs his grimy old Second-chance body armor
from the LAPD days and stuffs it into his Haliburton.

IN MACE'S CAR, Lenny keeps looking behind them.  Mace
tells him they're not being followed.  Lenny can't relax.
What is the killer trying to do?
It's like he's taunting him, or trying to get him to do
something.
But what?

We hear the car radio, more New Year's Eve hype.
Lenny is oblivious to it.  He is also oblivious to the
low-rent neighborhood they have entered.

Outside the car, we see increasing evidence of past and
present street warfare.  Burned out buildings in a long
row, gang-tag graffiti everywhere, tough looking guys
riding around in cars, wearing bandanas and giving the
limo the evil eye.
There are cops in body armor and helmets on some street-
corners, holding automatic rifles.  Helicopters orbit
endlessly.
Several blocks away, a column of smoke blackens the sky
from some isolated eruption of violence or arson.

They pass through a police checkpoint.
Cops have a car pulled out of the line, and are shaking
down the occupants for weapons.  Three Hispanic guys are
standing around with their hands on their heads, looking
pissed off as the cops do the "routine search."
We realize that LA's approach to crime has been to slide
slowly toward a police-state.  We should get the feeling
from this driving sequence that the city is living almost
in a state of siege, ready to erupt into chaos and rioting
with very little provocation.

Mace says the death of Jeriko One has got things stirred
up, so the cops are beefing up their presence on the
street.  The LAPD says Jeriko got done by 36th Street,
because their tags were at the scene.  But 36th Street
says they didn't do it.

They arrive at Mace's house.  By daylight, we see that she
lives on a lower income street, in a mostly black
neighborhood.
Lenny throws his stuff down in the living room and goes
with Mace out to the tiny backyard.  Cecile is there,
hanging out with her boyfriend, CURTIS, and Curtis' friend
VEJ.
These two guys are about 18, dressed in gangsta garb,
bandanas on their heads.
They are listening to "The Prophets of Light" on a CD
player.
They stare at Lenny like he is from Mars.

Zander runs up to Lenny with his arms out, and Lenny
hoists him over his head.  Lenny flies him around the
yard, and then they get into a deep conversation about
some esoteric five-year-old stuff.
Mace watches Lenny with Zander for a moment.  The kid
loves him.  Then she tells Cecile to stay and babysit a
while longer, because she and Lenny are going out again.
Cecile loses it over that one but Mace chills her with a
look.
You don't mess with Mace.

MACE'S CAR IS CRUISING through the late afternoon traffic.
Lenny is on the cellular to Max.
He tells him that they are going to TRAN'S to see if he
can make anything of the killer's tapes.
Max wants to meet him there but Lenny asks him to stay on
the surveillance of Faith.  He's sure, somehow, that this
has something to do with her, and he needs to know that
she is safe.

A STREET IN THE WAREHOUSE DISTRICT.  Mace's car pulls up
to the loading ramp of a nondescript building.  Graffiti-
covered brick and broken windows.

INSIDE THE WAREHOUSE Lenny leads Mace to a massive freight
elevator.  He keys an intercom and says, Yo, Tran.  It's
Lenny.  You up there, bud?

His answer is the sound of the freight elevator starting
up with a clanking rumble.  The open cage descends to meet
them.
Lenny rolls up the safety bars and motions to Mace to step
into the cage.  He hits the button.  They ascend.

IN THE ELEVATOR.  As they ride up three levels, Lenny is
running a stream-of-consciousness riff on Iris' death.
The fact that she did a lot of wire-work, for a lot of
different people.  Maybe she saw something, caught
something on a clip... something dangerous to the wrong
person.  And whoever wired her up is afraid those wrong
people will trace the whole thing back to them... could be
anything, drugs, gangs, mafia, corrupt politicians.
She could have recorded something which got her killed.

But was the killer someone Iris saw and recorded, or was
it whoever she was wearing for?

The elevator lurches to a stop and Lenny rolls up the
safety grate.
They walk out into a dark, expansive loft.  Most of the
space is empty, just a dusty cavernous storage space.  The
windows are blacked out.  At the far end is an island of
light.
They walk toward it.

Under fluorescents, Tran sits at a table stacked high with
exotic electronics gear.  It is a sort of workshop/living
space, with a couch and some chairs stuck in among racks
of component electronics.  There are two computer
workstations, with half a dozen monitor screens.  Plus
lots of squid gear... record and playback equipment.  Copy
decks.  Signal processing gear.
Cables snake everywhere over the floor, and there are
piles of junk and boxes full of clips, chassis, and
components of all types.  There is a refrigerator, a
microwave, and a ping-pong table piled up with mostly
empty pizza boxes.
Several large-screen TVs are running, unwatched.
A true cyberpunk place.

VITA MINH is there, sitting on a table near Tran.  In a
lawn chair sits a VIETNAMESE GANGMEMBER with an AR-15
lying across the arms of the chair.  All three of them are
skinny and dangerous-looking.

Tran is working on his pet project.  He wants to put squid
recordings out on a private computer-net.  He's working on
a compression/encryption algorithm to allow him to send
squidnet data out over a bootleg high-bandwidth fiber
optic system to thousands of wiretrippers all over the
country.  He wants to be the first squidnet deejay of the
neural underground.

Lenny holds up the two anonymous tapes and tells Tran to
play them down.

What you got there, Lenny?  Some new meatwire clips?

It's a black-jack, Tran.  A bad one.  I need you to look
at it.

Tran shrugs.  Takes a blast from his vasopressin inhaler.
Why not.

CUT TO MINUTES LATER.  Tran seems unaffected emotionally
by the tape.  In fact he is revved up.  He digs the
performance art aspect of the piece.  Vita is making faces
as she plays the tape and saying great eyefuck.

Lenny reminds Tran that he came here for a technical
analysis of the tape, not a fucking art critique.

Tran starts with the de-saturation.  Says the killer has
some kind of distortion of the color and gray-scale values
in his visual cortex... a sort of color blindness.  He
runs the signal from the tape through his processing
equipment and says, See, look at the peak-peroid ratios
here... there's something wrong with this guy.  Maybe some
kind of tumor, brain lesion.  Some kind of trauma.

Makes sense, Lenny says, a lot of psycho killers have had
brain injuries.  What about the real-time hook-up?

He's using some kind of box to split the signal.  So it
goes to the recorder and directly to the trode set he put
on the girl.

You ever make a box like that?

Yeah, I've sold a few.  But I can't see it well enough in
the clip to tell if it's one of mine.  He doesn't let his
eyes settle on the gear.

Yeah, I know.  What about what she's saying.  Can you do
anything to clarify the signal?  I can't make it out.

Tran goes to work.  He gets the tape back from Vita and
puts it into his master deck.  He puts on a trode set and
finds the section on the tape where Iris talks.  He
samples it off to the computer where he processes the
signal.  Muttering to himself.  He pops some choline and
vincamine, and does another big snort from his inhaler
while he works.

He gives Lenny the trodes to check out the processed
signal.

IN POV we see Iris again, white faced and panting.  The
sound is much clearer.

She says I don't have it... I gave it to somebody... a guy
I know... please... I haven't seen your face... I haven't
heard your voice... you can still let me go...

Lenny takes off the trodes.  Realizes "the guy" is him.
But she didn't give him anything.

Mace tells Lenny to think of exactly what Iris said when
she came into the bar.  He remembers her saying she didn't
want to come in but she changed her mind.

Mace figures maybe she put it, whatever it is, in Lenny's
car.  Thinking he would get it when he came out.  But then
the car got towed.
Lenny thinks about it, realizing she is right.
He runs out without thanking Tran.

6:05 PM

DUSK.  The last night of this millennium is falling.
AT THE IMPOUND YARD IN SAN PEDRO, Mace's car pulls to the
curb.  The yard is located in the vast no-man's land of
storage lots, cranes and warehouses near the piers of the
harbor.  The impound office is locked.  Closed for New
Year's Eve.

Mace and Lenny get out.  She goes to the trunk and opens
it.  Inside are an assortment of things she brought, in
case.
Shotgun, flashlight, walkie-talkies.  Bolt-cutters.

CUT TO Lenny and Mace cutting the chain off the gate with
the long-handled bolt-cutters.  They enter the yard.  Mace
is carrying a blunt object that looks like a ray-gun.  A
TAZER.

Right on cue a huge Rottweiler bounds out of the shadows
at them, growling, its head low on an attack run.  Mace
fires and the tazer lights up the dog with 120,000 volts
(low amperage/not lethal).  It whines and flips over
twice, then runs off behind some parked cars.

Lenny spots his BMW in the lot and they go to it.  The car
is blocked in by ten other cars, so he's not getting it
back this trip.
He unlocks the door and looks inside with a tiny mag-lite
while Mace cover them with the tazer.  A puppy-like whine
comes occasionally from behind some cars nearby.  We catch
a glimpse of the puzzled, snuffling Rottweiler eyeing them
warily.
Lenny finds the tape on the floormat, passenger side,
still wrapped in the note.  He reads the note... LENNY,
HELP ME.  Shit.  Guilt hits him all over again.  He
crumples the note, puts the tape in his briefcase, and
they head for the gate.  It is almost full night now.

As they reach the car they are hit by two flashlight
beams.
It is the two cops, STECKLER AND ENGELMAN, out of uniform,
but looking very serious with their pistols aimed at Lenny
and Mace.
They have been following Lenny, knowing sooner or later he
would lead them to the tape.

Steckler tell Lenny to give me the tape.  Lenny says it's
in my case.
At that moment the pissed-off Rottweiler shoots through
the open gate like a black torpedo and tears into
Engelman's leg.

Engelman shoots the dog.

Lenny swings up his Haliburton, using it as a shield, and
dives for the car.  The case takes three rounds from
Steckler's 9mm before Lenny gets behind cover.  Mace just
seems to vanish.
She reappears over the trunk of the limo and puts two
rounds squarely into Steckler's chest, knocking him down.
Lenny and Mace scramble into the car, starting it up.

Steckler sits up, pulling up his shirt to make sure his
body armor stopped the slugs.  No blood.  He comes up
firing.  He and Engelman empty their magazines at the limo
as it pulls away.
They realize it is bulletproof and run to their pickup
truck, parked nearby, to give chase.

Steckler's face is a mask of rage.  He slams the truck in
gear and accelerates after the limo before Engelman even
has the door closed.

Inside the limo, Mace is doing her thing... what she's
trained for.  Security driving.  She whips some moves in
the big car, but the truck stays behind her.  It is
closing on them.

Oh no, we're not being followed, Lenny.  Don't be so
paranoid, Lenny, he says.

Mace isn't listening.  She's concentrating on driving.
Lenny has his briefcase open... Steckler's shots have
shattered the equipment inside.  He pulls out the tape
they found in his car.
They hear rounds hitting the car, and look back.
The truck is right behind them.
Mace tells Lenny not to worry... all the glass is bullet
resistant.

Bullet resistant?  Whatever happened to bulletproof?!

Engelman leans out the passenger side window with an AK-47
assault rifle.  He rips off several bursts which riddle
the limo, cracking the glass in starburst patterns.  The
lexan-laminated windows are cracked to hell, but the
rounds don't come all the way through.

THE LIMO slides broadly through a turn, sideslamming a
parked van.  Mace accelerates.  Steckler's truck comes
alongside, ramming them.  The impact drives them sideways.
Mace swerves to miss a light-standard and finds herself
roaring between warehouse buildings which front the
harbor.
The truck stays right with them.
Engelman fires bursts at the tires, shredding them off the
rims.
The limo thunders along on steel rims, throwing rooster-
tails of orange sparks.

Mace finds herself boxed-in by the buildings.  No way to
turn.
Ahead is a short concrete pier.  She hits the brakes and
the limo skids on its rims out onto the pier, stopping
before it reaches the end.
They are trapped.

Engelman and Steckler jump out of the truck, taking cover
behind it.  They rake the limo with bursts from their AK-
47s.
INSIDE THE CAR, it sounds like they are inside a steel
drum in some psychotic Calypso band.  But the armored body
panels hold.
Lenny and Mace keep their heads down below the door-frame.
Lenny is calling 911 on his phone.
He gets a no-service recording.
Mace has reloaded her Sig and is trying to open the door
on her side (away from the bad guys).  It is jammed,
probably by sideswiping.

Steckler reaches into the bed of the truck and pulls out a
gallon gas can.  He uncaps it and throws it across the
pavement.  It slide under the limo, glugging its contents
onto the ground.  Steckler grabs a road-flare from under
the seat of the truck and strikes the cap, lighting it.
He tosses the flare under the limo--

KA-WHOOMPH!!  The gas can explodes in a fireball.  The
Continental is engulfed in flames.
From the inside all Lenny and Mace can see is fire.
All the windows are covered in roaring flames.

This is bad, Mace says matter-of-factly.  Lenny is
freaking, shouting that the gas tank will go any second.
Mace isn't listening.
She's thinking.

She slams the car into gear and floors it.
The powerful Lincoln thunders forward.  It crashes through
a chain-link fence and launches right off the end of the
pier.
A fireball plunging in a meteoric arc into the oily black
water.
Inside, they are slammed forward by the impact.
The car sinks.
It hits bottom, twenty feet down.
It sits there amid old tires and junk.  Shafts of light
play down from the big streetlights at the end of the
pier.
INSIDE, Lenny and Mace are in a flooding black tomb.

Are you out of your fucking mind?  Lenny yells.

Fire's out, isn't it?

Mace scrambles into the backseat.  She wrenches at the
rear seatback, pulls it free.
She crawls half-into the huge trunk.
Water is up around their legs.
She grabs her shotgun... a sawed-off ten-gauge.

Mace looks over at Lenny.  Tells him to get in here beside
her.  And to hold his breath.
She aims the ten-gauge at the trunk latch mechanism.

Lenny, kick out hard, then just follow me.  Okay?

He nods.  BLAM!!  She blows the trunk latch into shrapnel.
The trunk lid belches open in a whoosh of bubbles.
Lenny and Mace kick out, heading toward the lights of the
pier.
She gets alongside the slimy concrete wall and surfaces
slowly.
Lenny comes up beside her.
They are in the inky shadows under a massive bumper made
of rail-road ties.  Engelman and Steckler are standing
above them, scanning the water over the barrels of their
AKs.

Let's get out of here, Steckler says.

What about the tape?

You going to go get it?  Steckler shouts, pointing at the
black water.  They run back to the truck and high-tail it
out of there.

Down below, Lenny and Mace are clinging to the pier, chest
deep in water.  They hear the truck pulling away.
They let out big exhalations of relief.
Lenny feels around in his jacket pocket.  He pulls out the
tape... nice and dry in it's plastic case.
Holds it up to show Mace.

Are you impressed? he says.

7:25 PM

CUT TO LENNY AND MACE, dripping wet, riding in the
backseat of Curtis' car.  They pull up at Mace's house and
she thanks Curits for picking them up.  Cecile comes
running out to meet them, asking if Mace is alright.

They go inside together.  Zander is asleep.

Lenny goes straight to his playback gear and sets up the
deck on the kitchen table.

Mace gets Zander up and tells Cecile to take him to her
house, because she and Lenny are probably going out again.
Cecile says she and Curtis were going to a New Year's Eve
party.
Mace says no.  She doesn't want Cecile out on the streets
tonight.
Curtis says it's the party of the century, no way we
sitting home.
Mace gives him the look.
He puts up his hands.  Okay.  I'm with it.
We see that, at 27, Mace is the de facto matriarch of this
family.
Cecile leaves the keys to her old Honda Civic and takes
Zander, splitting with Curtis in his car.

Mace comes back in, going down the hall to the kitchen,
where she finds Lenny, sitting at the table.
His eyes are closed as he plays back the tape Iris gave
him.
As Mace sits down across from him, Lenny's mouth opens in
shock.
Jesus, he whispers.  He watches until the tape ends, then
looks at her with a stunned expression.

Tell me, she says.

Lenny says she better see for herself.
Playback is against her religion, but Mace can tell by his
expression it's no time to stand on principle.
She nods yes.  He settles the trodes on her head.

I'm sorry this has to be your first wiretrip, he says.  He
hits PLAY.

Mace reacts as the sensory input hits her.  She opens her
eyes... realizes that she's seeing double.  Lenny tells
her to keep her eyes closed.  She bites her lip as she
lets the sensation of being another person flood through
her.

POV SEQUENCE: We are Iris.  Riding in a car.  Fixing our
makeup in a mirror on the passenger-side sunvisor.
Iris flips the sunvisor back up, revealing the moving
street.  It is night.
We look down, and recognize the dress Iris was wearing
when we first saw her, two nights ago.  She puts her
lipstick into a purse which is belted to her waist.
Iris turns her head and we see the driver.
It is JERIKO ONE.
He is laughing, talking to someone in the back seat.
Iris looks and we see REPLAY, Jeriko's sideman, and
another woman, DIAMANDA.  They are amorously entwined.

They are all laughing and passing around a bottle of Jim
Beam.  The car stereo is thumping loudly.
Iris' POV swings around and looks down, seeing Jeriko's
hand caressing her thigh.  She puts her hand on his chest
and leans close to him.
Jeriko grins, then looks up and swears.
We are aware of a wash of alternating red and blue light.

Shit.  Fuckin' Five-O, Jeriko says.

Our POV swings to the rear-view mirror and we see an LAPD
car behind us, with the gumball machine on.  A spotlight
hits us and we hear a single whoop on the siren.
Jeriko pulls over, but they are on an overpass... no
shoulder.

Go to the bottom of the ramp, comes a bullhorn voice from
behind them.  Jeriko and Replay are both swearing.  He
pulls the car down the ramp and they come to a stop on a
deserted street in a warehouse district.  Our POV looks
around nervously.
Black shadows and concrete pillars.  No one around.  Cars
whoosh on the bridge above but they might as well be on
Mars.
The car is stopped next to a train yard.  We hear the
rumble of diesels nearby, the clank of freightcars.

We see the outlines of TWO COPS advancing through the beam
of the spotlight, their guns drawn.

Jeriko can't believe this shit.  He jumps out and the cops
start yelling.  Telling him to get down on his knees and
put his hands on his head.
They are telling everyone to get out of the car.
Our POV comes up and out of the car.

Put your hands behind your head now, one of the cops is
yelling at Jeriko, who is still giving them attitude.

They get Replay down on his knees as well, in the wet
gutter next to the curb.
The cops are closer now.
We see that they are Steckler and Engelman.
Engelman turns to us and tells us to put our hands on the
hood of the car and don't move.  We exchange a look with
Diamanda.  Fucking cops.

Jeriko is winding up the cops.  Not giving them the
pleasure of the humiliation.  You can see it escalating.
He says, I suppose you stopped us cause you had suspects
fitting our description in the area, what you're gonna
tell me.  What was the description?  Two black guys in a
car?  Yeah, right, I heard that one...

Engelman pulls out Jeriko's wallet, looks at the ID.

Jeriko keeps going, Well, you stopped the wrong guy
tonight officer... what is it?  Steckler.  Officer
Steckler.  Cause I'm the 800-pound gorilla in your mist,
fucker.  I make more in a day than you make in a year, and
my lawyers love to spend my money dragging sorry-ass Aryan
robocops like you into court.  Get a man down on the
ground with no probable cause.  Fuck you!  Steckler tells
him to shut the fuck up and kicks him down on his face.
Diamanda starts yelling to leave them alone, they weren't
doing anything.
Steckler says, Shut up.  Don't make me walk over there.
Engelman shows the ID to Steckler, saying something we
can't hear.

Steckler says to Jeriko, You're Jeriko?  That rap puke?
Is that right?  You're the one getting all the gangbangers
to form citizens groups and go downtown... trying to rake
the LAPD over the cheesegrator... all that shit?

That's right.  And you're gonna be in my next song,
motherfucker, it's called Robo-Steckler.  You gonna be
famous.

Replay starts laughing.  Diamanda stifles a giggle.
Steckler is white-lipped with rage.  Years of frustration
coming to a vibrating head of steam pressure.  Too many
disciplinary actions, too many suspensions, too little
appreciation of the tough job they do.

Jeriko goes on, It's a song about a cop who meets his
worst nightmare, a nigger with enough political juice to
crush his ass like a stinkbug.

Steckler looks around the empty street.  Looks at
Engelman.
Down at Jeriko, proned out on the pavement.

I don't think so, he says, and shoots him BLAM!  BLAM!
Twice in the back of the head.  Just like that.

Diamanda screams.  Replay tries to roll to his feet.
Steckler shoots him twice in the stomach.
Replay is screaming.  Rolling around holding his guts.

I don't hear you laughing!  Steckler shouts at him.

Engelman is yelling something.  Steckler turns to him.
His eyes are wide with adrenaline.  Steckler orders him to
get the bitches.
Engelman hesitates and then spins toward us.
Diamanda is screaming, backing away from Engelman.
Steckler shoots Replay four more times.
We spin 180 and start to run.  Hear shots...
BLAM!  BLAM!  BLAM!  Spin back... to see Diamanda dropping
to her knees.  Engelman shoots her again.  Then raises his
gun toward us.
We spin away.  The world becomes a kinetic blur.

The sound of shots.  We see puffs of dust on the ground in
front of us.  Missed shots.  We tumble over a guardrail
and roll down an embankment... get up and keep running.
Train tracks ahead.  Looking back... here come Steckler
and Engelman down the embankment, overtaking us.
We hear the thunder of a train... spinning again to look
forward.
Freight train doing fifty on the nearest track.  Almost to
us.
We leap forward.
Over the track.  The diesel roars past behind us.
Looking back... a black wall of moving steel.
Backing away from it.
We see Engelman and Steckler crouching down... trying to
aim through the wheels.  Hear the impotent pop of their
guns over the roar of the train.
Turning to run again.  We see a tiny hole appear in a sign
right in front of us with a metallic SPANG.
Running and running.
Looking back.
No pursuit.  Train still rolling by.  Can't see the cops.
Running, running.  Heart pounding and lungs heaving.
Sobbing sounds coming from somewhere, seeming to fill the
night.
Looking down... one shoe on, one shoe off.
Iris' hand takes off the remaining shoe, clutches it to
her chest.
We move forward into the dark train-yard as--
THE TAPE ENDS.

ON MACE, reacting.  Stunned.  She opens her eyes.
Lenny is on the phone nearby.
He says, Hang on, Max.

Lenny crosses and shuts off the playback deck, then hands
her a drink.  She gulps it.  He picks up the phone again.

I'm back.  So what the fuck do we do?

CUT TO MAX IN HIS CAR.  He tells Lenny hell if I know.
But they can't talk cellular.  Strictly landline.  And he
says don't trust anybody.  I mean nobody.  Don't go to the
cops... I'll tell you why when we get together.  And don't
get pulled over, for chrissake.  Don't use any credit
cards, they'll be scanning for your numbers.  You'll pop
up.  You gotta be invisible.  Listen, meet me at Tran's in
half an hour.

Yeah, okay.  Gotta go, Max.

Mace is still reeling.
Even in the thick of it, chased by guys with machine guns,
on fire driving off a pier, underwater... we never saw
Mace scared.
She looks scared now.
This could be one they can't win.

No wonder Iris was so freaked, she says.  Poor thing.  Do
you know what this means, Lenny?  If this gets out?

Yeah.  I got an idea.

If folks find out that the LAPD just flat-out executed
Jeriko One?  My God.

Lenny sticks his Glock in his waistband, over his right
hip.

Look, we've gotta get out of here.  Right now.  These two
whacko cops probably ran your plates while they were
following us around.  They'll have this address.

Mace gets it.  She accepts what he says quickly.  Matter-
of-factly.
Yeah.  Okay.  Let me pack some stuff.

No.  There's no time.

Lenny grabs his deck and trodes, pulling out the tape and
putting it in his pocket.  He heads down the hall to get
his other stuff.  He takes the box of Faith tapes and
chucks them into his bag, along with the playback
equipment.

Mace climbs up on the kitchen counter and pulls a black
bag down from the top of the highest cabinet.  She hops
down and unzips it.  Inside she has a .380 auto pistol and
some ammo.  She starts loading a magazine.

Lenny has his bag over his shoulder.  He stops in the
bathroom to take a leak for the road.

Mace clicks the magazine into the pistol and zips up the
bag.
She sets it on the kitchen table.  She crosses to the
fridge to pick up Cecile's car keys.  Through the kitchen
window she notices movement in the alley behind her
house... a pickup truck with its lights off coming to a
stop.

She hits the deck, shouting to Lenny, a microsecond before
an AK-47 opens fire.

Lenny flops sideways into the tub, getting as low as he
can.
The drywall explodes inward as the assault rifle rakes the
house.
Rounds hit the side of the tub, dimpling it from end to
end.

The kitchen is torn to pieces by the burst, which tear
right through the walls like paper.  Mace is showered with
debris.
Shattered glass.  Flying plaster.

The water-cooler explodes.  Mace, on her stomach, manages
to get the fridge door open and hides behind it.  The
inner side of the door is riddled with hits, sending
catchup, mustard and egg debris flying.
The room light is shot out, leaving only the fridge light.

Suddenly there is silence.

Mace, behind the fridge door, sees a shadow on the floor.
Someone is at the outside kitchen door.
She hears the splintered door open.  Feet crunching on
broken glass.
Her gun is on the table, across the room.  She'd never
make it.
Mace holds her breath.  She reaches one hand silently up
onto the top of the stove next to her head... searching.

In the light from the fridge, she sees something appear
past the edge of the fridge door... a long fat silencer,
screwed onto an Ingram MAC-10, held by gloved hands.

The man in the black ski mask sees her a split-second too
late.
The iron skillet comes up under his hands, knocking the
gun upward.
A burst goes into the ceiling.  And Mace is on him.
She slams the intruder into the far wall, keeping her
hands on the gun, trying to keep the muzzle away from her.
She cracks her forehead down on the bridge of his nose.
Knees him in the balls.
He oophs and folds over.  She does it again.
She rips the gun out of his hands.  It clatters away into
the shadows.  They struggle viciously in the dark,
slipping and sliding on the flooded floor.  The ski-mask
gets pulled half-off revealing Steckler the street-monster
cop.

He snarls and rams her against the wall, outweighing her
by 90 pounds.  He pounds her head into the plaster.
Lenny comes in with his Glock.
Sees only dark shapes.

GIVE IT UP, STECKLER!

Steckler spins Mace around, between him and Lenny.  He
gets her in a vicious headlock, using her body as a
shield.
She can barely breathe.
Lenny pulls a hand out of his pocket... holding a squid
tape.

This is what you want.  Take it and cut her loose.

Lenny moves warily forward... holding the tape far out
with one hand, holding the gun back with the other.
Steckler reaches out for the tape.
Takes it.
Then he suddenly hurls Mace at Lenny with incredible
force, knocking him down.
Mace hits the floor amid broken glass and water.
Steckler makes it out of the back door.
Mace scrambles to the MAC-10 and rolls to her knees into a
firing position.
But she ducks as--
Engelman opens fire again from the alley, raking the
kitchen.
Steckler makes it to the pickup and they floor it out of
there.
Mace, pissed off beyond belief, runs right out the back
door after them.
She aims the MAC-10 at the pickup as it roars away.
Lenny comes out behind her.

Shoot!  Lenny says.

Lenny, I got neighbors.  I can't just go capping off
toward Mrs. Dochard's house, for Chrissake!

I knew that.

I can't believe you gave him the tape.

Yeah, me neither.  It was one of my favorites.  Me and
Faith in a hot tub on my birthday.

You didn't!

Yeah.  I'm gonna really miss it.  Come on, we gotta get
outta here.

CUT TO THEM IN CECILE'S CIVIC.  They see helicopters
circling as they maneuver the dark streets.  Xenon
searchlights crisscross the rooftops nearby.
They see patrol cars passing on cross-streets, lights
flashing.
It feels like the entire LAPD is looking for them.
Same sense of fear and vast forces arrayed against you as
with Iris running along the train tracks.

Mace says Steckler wanted the hit to look like a drive-by.
Very commonplace in my part of town.  Nobody would
question it.
So they hose us down from the alley, then creep in for a
deal-closer with silenced weapon... can't afford to leave
anybody breathing.

Lenny is cranked and paranoid.

Now he's got Gant's goons, a psycho sex-killer and the
LAPD all trying to kill him.  The new millennium is three
hours away and it looks iffy he'll make it.
He doesn't know who they can trust.
They obviously can't go to the police.

Well, look at the plus side, Mace says, You gave up your
hot-tub tape to save me.  That's real progress for you,
Lenny.

They approach a police checkpoint.  Mace bluffs it
through.
Lenny slouches, shitting a brick the whole time as they go
through.
As they drive, they see small crowds here and there,
street parties in progress.  People drinking and firing
bottle rockets.  Big police presence everywhere.

Mace says something is bothering her.  She can't put the
sophistication of Iris' killer with the brutal stupidity
of those two cops.  It doesn't add up.

Lenny says he doesn't think one of the cops killed Iris.
He think that whoever Iris was wearing for was trying to
break the trail back to them by killing her.  The thing
that's driving me crazy is I know Faith is involved in
this somehow.  It's got to be her shitbird boyfriend.
He's the only one that knows everybody.  He was Jeriko's
manager.

Mace didn't know that.  Yeah, Lenny says.  And he would
know Iris through Faith.  So that closes the loop.  Jeriko
plus Iris equals Philo Gant.  But I still have no fucking
idea what's going on here.

THEY PULL UP in front of Tran's warehouse.  There is no
traffic on the street.  Max is parked near the entrance,
waiting.  He flashes his headlights at them as they pull
up to him.  Max gets out of the car and joins them.  They
go in together.

Max says, I pulled files on this guy Steckler.  He's been
suspended four times in eight years for excessive use of
force.  What they euphemistically refer to as a problem
officer.  His partner's name is Engelman.  A hardcharger
from gang task-force.  Macho reputation.  A real Nazi-
youth.  These guys pulling over Jeriko... you couldn't a
planned a better train wreck.

They buzz Tran's intercom.  No answer.  Lenny notices that
the elevator cage is down, which is unusual.  He raises
one eyebrow and they step into it.  Mace slips her .380
out, on alert.

The only sound is the clanking mechanism as they ascend.
When they arrive at the floor there is no one in sight.
They raise the safety bars and walk toward Tran's area.

Tran?
No answer.
They find him slumped in a chair, staring at nothing.
Playback trodes are on his head.  Somebody got to him.

Lenny examines him.  He's seen this before.  It's called a
cook-off.  You plug an amplifier into the output chip of
the deck and it boosts the signal to a near-lethal level
which fries the brain's sensory cortices.  His lobes have
been poached by sensory overload.
He is completely cut off from the outerworld.

Max says the psycho cops are on a slash and burn to track
down any copies of the tape.  Since Tran is a known
duplicator, and totally plugged in to the wiretripping
scene, it would be logical to interrogate him.  Find out
what he knows.  Like: If copies were made.  Or who might
have wired up Iris.  And afterward, this was a good way to
shut him up.  It doesn't even get investigated as a
homicide, because he's still technically alive.

Lenny gets right in front of Tran's eyes.
He shouts at him, at the top of his lungs.

TRAN'S POV.  We see a roaring blizzard of inchoate static.
Somewhere in the middle of it is a suggestion of Lenny's
face, almost invisible.  We hear the tiniest ghost of his
voice, like a radio playing two blocks away.

Vita comes in with two gangmembers, carrying fast-food
bags.
She clocks the situation... Lenny crouched over the
slumped Tran.
Vita whips out a nickel-plated automatic and runs at
Lenny, screaming.  Lenny jumps back, palms up, talking
fast.
It takes the combined efforts of Max, Mace and Lenny to
talk her out of drilling him.
She pushes past him to Tran and pulls on him, yelling.
Her jaded ultra-cool act vanishes.  She breaks down
sobbing.
She knows what has happened to him.
The effect is permanent.

Who did this? she wants to know.

Lenny shows her a bit of the Jeriko death clip.  He says
it was probably these guys.  The faces of Steckler and
Engelman are burned into her memory.
Max pulls Mace and Lenny aside.

					MAX
		Listen, Lenny... there might be more
		to this than what you think, here.

					LENNY
		Whaddya mean?

					MAX
		All I'm saying... You don't know how
		high up the food chain this thing
		goes.  I've heard stuff.

					LENNY
		What stuff?

					MAX
		Smoke.  Rumors.  I've heard stuff
		about a death squad.

					MACE
		What kind of death squad?

					MAX
		A deadly one.  A Death Squad.  A
		group a guys loyal to the ultra-
		hardline school.  Guys that've had
		too many years of city hall and the
		commissions and the fucking media
		pissing down their necks, suspending
		cops right and left, tying their
		hands... while outta the other side
		a their mouths these same people're
		squealing, Save us, save us, do
		something you fucking morons, crime
		is totally out of control.  Nobody
		knows shit about it, but there's
		something going on.  These guys
		could be part of it.

					LENNY
		Christ.

					MAX
		Exactly.  Get religion.  So Lenny, I
		love you like my own blood, but
		don't walk near me in public, okay.

					LENNY
		Thanks, buddy.

					MAX
		I'm kidding.

					LENNY
		What about Internal Affairs?

					MAX
		I heard even some of them were in on
		this.

					LENNY
		Bullshit!  Conspiracy paranoia.

					MAX
		The issue is not whether you are
		paranoid but whether you are
		paranoid enough.  Don't forget,
		ultimately LAPD is a military
		organization.  Push comes to shove,
		they take care of their own.

					MACE
		It seems like the only card we have
		to play is the tape.  You know, get
		it to the media somehow.

					LENNY
		Yeah, blow it open.

					MAX
		Sure... they run that story on the
		six o'clock news, and by seven
		o'clock you got the biggest riot in
		history.  They'll see the fuckin'
		smoke from Canada.

					MACE
		You saying we just pretend it didn't
		happen?  It happened.  It was a
		fucking execution.

					MAX
		Fine.  Do you want blood running
		waist deep in the storm drains?  You
		got two hundred thousand jobless
		gangbangers who are gonna spread
		like a wave through this city and
		burn it to the ground.  And the
		street cops ain't gonna be standing
		around this time either... when they
		see the fires start, it's gonna be
		like a goddamn school bell.  I
		guarantee they'll be capping off at
		anything that moves... it'll be all-
		out war and you know it.  You want
		that on your head?

					MACE
		Look, let's just make a few copies
		of the damn tape and figure out what
		to do with it later.

Lenny pops the tape into Tran's master deck and sets up to
make five copies.

					LENNY
		I'm going to get Faith.  Is she
		still at Gant's?

					MAX
		Yeah.  But that's not such a great
		idea--

					LENNY
		Where's Gant?

					MAX
		At the Mondo.  But he's coming back
		to pick her up, they're going to the
		big mega-party later.

Lenny tells Max to go to the club and keep good eyeball on
Gant.  He takes three cellulars with scramblers from
Tran's tech storage.  One for each of them.

9:34 PM

LENNY AND MACE pull up to the front gates of Gant's house
in Cecile's beat up Civic.  Lenny pushes the buzzer and
Wade answers.  Wade won't let him in, and won't let him
talk to Faith.  Recommends that he leave.

Lenny backs up the Civic and floors it at the gate,
breaking the actuator arm.  The wrought-iron gate swings
inward with a crash and Lenny hears a burglar alarm go
off.  He pulls forward into the courtyard.  He and Mace
get out of the car.
Floodlights come on.

Wade Beemer comes out, drawing a pistol, followed by two
other security guys assigned to cover the house.  Lenny
and Mace are just standing there, unthreateningly.  Faith
comes running out of the front door, stopping Wade and the
security team from getting violent.

Wade says he's calling the police.  Faith yells, NO!
Absolutely not.  And then Lenny knows that she knows about
the Jeriko tape.
It's what he thought.  They can't afford to get cops
involved.
One of the security guys shuts down the hooting alarm.
Everyone is tense, electrified.

Lenny says, Well you ain't gonna have us arrested, so
either shoot us or invite us in for a drink.  Faith tells
them to come into the house.
Wade wants their guns.
Mace tells him no, she'll just keep hers, thanks.
Her eyes say try to take it, motherfucker.

Faith tells Wade and the others to back off, leave them
alone.
Wade says he's calling Mr. Gant.  Fine, she says.
We see Wade go to a phone.

They go into the living room.  Lenny has obviously never
been here.  He looks around.  Comments on the place.
She has done well for herself.  Of course, at what cost?
Faith says he was unbelievably stupid to come here.
Philo's guys have standing orders to hurt him.

Mace gets right to the point.  What was Iris doing riding
around with Jeriko, wearing a wire?
Faith says she doesn't know what Mace is talking about.

Lenny grabs her shoulders and shakes her.  He says that
somebody took Iris, raped her then put a piece of cord
around her neck and twisted it until she stopped moving.
She turns away from them and starts to cry.
Mace says, Look, the man just don't want to see you wind
up like that.  Now talk to him, cause we don't have much
time.

Faith asks if she can talk to Lenny alone.
Lenny, surprisingly, says no.  Mace is in this.
She needs to hear whatever Faith has to say.
Faith nods.
Philo's become obsessed with playback, she says, a total
wiretrip junkie.  Always having me do clips for him,
buying new equipment.  And he was getting more and more
into surveillance.  Having people followed and videotaped.
He did this kind of shit all the time.  You wouldn't
believe some of the stuff he would do.  Recording the
calls his business partners made.  Wiring up people left
and right.  He was completely losing it.  I mean, look at
this house... there.  And there.
She points at the cameras, watching every room.

So then this beef with Jeriko came up.  There was a big
rift between them.  They were fighting over content on the
new album.  Philo was afraid Jeriko was going to dump him
and get a new label, and a new manager.  But he wasn't
sure about it, so he started with the surveillance.  A
couple nights ago he wires up Iris and sends her and the
other girl, Diamanda, over to Jeriko's table with his
compliments.
That night Iris call up, freaking.
I go pick her up.  Philo watched the tape and just loses
it.  He backhands her across the room.
He can't believe the disaster she's gotten him into.
Suddenly it's all about him.  Selfish prick.
So he gives her some cash.
Tells her to check into the hotel under a wrong name and
wait till he figures out what to do.  He's terrified the
cops will find her, and beat it out of her who she was
working for, and come looking for him.  And since I know
about it, he says I'm in danger too.
(we could see some of this in flash-cut flashback form --
 just to break the monologue)

					MACE
		Do you have any recordings made by
		Gant?

					FAITH
		No.  He never wears, only plays
		back.  For him it's about seeing
		himself through other people's eyes.
		He's fascinated by his own image.
		Why do you want to know?

					MACE
		Iris' killer has some kind of visual
		distortion.

					FAITH
		You think Philo killed her?

					LENNY
		Who knows about the cops killing
		Jeriko, besides you and Gant?

					FAITH
		Joey Corto

					LENNY
		Then it's either Gant himself or he
		had Corto do it.

					FAITH
		I can't believe it.  What a
		nightmare.

Faith goes out to the pool.  Lenny follows, motioning Mace
to stay back.  He puts his hand on her shoulders.
Faith accuses Lenny of getting Gant into this stuff in the
first place.  And he got her into it, too.  It's like an
obsession, and it's all his fault.

					LENNY
		I guess I thought if I got you to
		wear the trodes, if you could just
		see yourself the way I did, through
		my eyes... you would know how much
		you were loved.  But watching and
		seeing are two different things.

					FAITH
		I always loved your eyes, Lenny.
			   (she touches his
			    eyelids)
		I loved the way they saw.

					LENNY
		Will you leave here with me, right
		now.

					FAITH
		Yes, Lenny.  Thank you.  My guardian
		angel.

She kisses him.  It is soulful, not erotic.

INSIDE THE HOUSE, Mace watches them kiss in the shimmering
light from the pool.  She turns away.
The cellular in her pocket rings.
It is Max who says that Philo and his goons had already
left the club by the time he got there.  So he figures
they could be almost back to the house by now.  Mace
clicks off and goes out to interrupt Lenny and Faith.
We're out of here, she says.

Lenny tells Faith they have to go right now.
She wants to grab some things.
Mace says, Uh unh, now.

They are going down the front steps when Wade intercepts
them.
Faith says she's going out, she'll be back in a few
minutes.
Wade says Mr. Gant gave him orders that she was not to
leave.

At that moment a STRETCH LIMO pulls into the courtyard at
high speed.  Philo and Joey Corto get out of the back
while Constance and Duncan come out the front doors.  The
men are in tuxes, Constance in an elegant gown.

Mace says, Lenny, don't try anything.  Just keep your
hands in plain sight.

Everybody is tense, moving slowly.  Everybody knows
everybody has a gun.  An armed society is a polite
society.
Philo walks up to Lenny.  They eyeball each other.
Gant turns to Faith, saying, I thought we had a party to
go to, my dear.
The party of the century.  You're not standing me up, are
you?

Forget it, Philo.  I'm leaving with Lenny.

No, I don't think so.  We have to at least put in an
appearance, tonight.  What would people think?  Now why
don't you go in and get ready.  You can wear those pearls
I gave you.  Say good bye to Lenny.

The implication is that Philo is going to have his team do
bad things to Lenny if she doesn't play ball.

Faith goes up to Philo.  Gets very close.  She says, You
want me at the party, at your side, smiling for the
cameras... you want me to play ball with you and keep my
mouth shut?  Then you let Lenny drive out of here.  Right
now, Philo.  Do it.  Don't fuck with me.

Without warning Philo rabbit-punches her right in the gut.
She gasps and drops to one knee.
Lenny lunges forward and Mace grabs him.
All the bodyguards whip their guns out.  Lenny and Mace
are staring down six large-caliber muzzles.
Mace keeps her hands in view, empty.

Whoa, whoa, she says, everybody just stay chill.

She stands between Lenny and Philo, pushing back on
Lenny's chest with one hand.  Constance and Corto in
particular look like they would love to start cranking off
rounds.

Don't play his game, Mace says low to Lenny.

Philo's eyes glitter.  He looks from her to Lenny, to
Mace, back to Faith.  He seems unspeakably evil, somehow,
but so icily under control that it's scary.  He is
mentally reviewing his options... one of which is to kill
Lenny immediately.

					PHILO
		Everybody just take it down a notch.
		This is no way to end a millennium.
		Tonight we should be celebrating.

Lenny looks at Philo, wondering what his game is.  If he
is the killer, then he has been sending Lenny the tapes
for a reason, goading him to do something.  But what?

					PHILO
		There's no need for you to hang
		around, Lenny

					MACE
		Get in the car.  Right now.

					LENNY
		I'm not leaving without Faith.

					FAITH
		Get out of here, Lenny.  I don't
		need your help.  You're just making
		it worse.  Can't you see that?  Go
		on!!  Get out of my life!  Just
		leave me alone.

Faith is doing it to save him, but she is convincing.
Mace pushes Lenny into the Honda Civic.
Gets in herself and starts backing away.

THEY RUN INTO MAX, COMING UP THE HILL, pull over and talk.
(or car phone)

Lenny says, I'm pretty sure Gant's the killer.  It's
either Gant or Corto.

Naw.  Corto's too stupid.  It's Gant.  Where's Faith?

We gotta go back for her.

Look don't panic.  He's not gonna do her at his house and
draw all that attention.  He'll do her at the party.  He
took a suite at the Bonaventure, right in the middle of
the action.  So after the glitzy shindig down in the
ballroom, he takes her upstairs for a little champagne...
that's when he makes his move.

Okay, Max, you stay here and follow them when they leave.
Whatever you do, keep them in sight.
(to Mace)
Come on.  We're going to a party.

MACE IS DRIVING in silence.  They hear sirens across the
night.  Two large pillars of fire are visible several
blocks away.
There are dark crowds of people everywhere.
People on the sidewalks, lighting fireworks.  There are
flashes and explosions.  It could be a celebration, or a
war-zone.  Maybe both.  Or one about to turn into the
other.

Lenny tenses up as they go through a police checkpoint
near their destination, Cecile's apartment.  Mace says,
They never stop you going in, they don't give a shit about
you going in.

LENNY AND MACE pull up to Cecile's apartment.  It is only
two miles southeast of the Bonaventure in downtown LA, but
it might as well be another planet.  It is gang territory
pure and simple.  Blacks and Hispanics.  Graffiti
everywhere.  Burned-out buildings.
They pull up to Cecile's.  It is a really poor
neighborhood.
Lenny has probably never been to a place like this.  He
sees abject poverty, here.
Even so, people are partying.
There are some homeboys chillin' on the front steps who
give Mace the local hand-sign.  She returns it
automatically as she goes up the steps past them.  As ex-
homegirl.  Lenny gets out of the car with his wardrobe
bag.  The homeboys give Lenny the eye as he brushes past
them.  Mace says, He's with me.
Curtis and Cecile are on the balcony of her apartment,
lighting off bottle rockets.  Zander is still up, because
of all the excitement, even though he's not supposed to
be.
Mace says he can stay up and watch the fireworks.

Mace and Lenny go inside.  They both look like shit and if
they're going to crash a ritzy party, they need to change.
He opens his bag and pulls out the suit he packed.
He glances at her.  She's just standing there with her jaw
locked.

					LENNY
		Come on.  We don't have much time.

					MACE
		I'm not going.

					LENNY
		What?

					MACE
		It's a set-up, Lenny.  You're gonna
		run down there to save your fair
		lady, and you're gonna wind up dead
		on the floor next to her.  That's
		why they've been sending you those
		tapes, to get you crazy.  So you'll
		rush in, without thinking.

He turns away, starting to get changed.
Mace's anger is out of frustrated concern for him.
She grabs his shoebox full of Faith tapes.  Holds them up
to him.

					MACE
		You are a pussywhipped sorry-ass
		motherfucker, you know that?  You
		gonna get yourself killed for
		this... this toxic-waste bitch.

She dumps the box of tapes on the floor.  She starts
stomping on them with one heel, crunching several into
junk.  Lenny freaks out and scrambles to pick them up,
trying to stop her, push her away.
They struggle for a pathetic, tragic moment.
Mace snaps.  She grabs him by the lapels and swings him
around, slamming him back against a wall.

					MACE
		Lenny!  This is your life, Lenny!
		Right here.  Right now.  This is
		real-time.  Not playback.  Real-
		time!  Time to get real.  Understand
		what I'm saying... she doesn't love
		you.  Maybe she did once, I don't
		know, but she doesn't now.  These
		are used emotions.  It's time to
		trade them in.

Mace's tone becomes more gentle.  We see that her outburst
is, beneath it all, coming from a place of compassion.

					MACE
		Lenny, memories were meant to fade.
		They're designed that way for a
		reason.

Lenny seems to crumble.  He knows he has to let go.  But
it is so painful.

					LENNY
		Have you ever been in love with
		somebody who didn't return that
		love?

Mace gives him a look like, jeez Lenny, are you dumb
sometimes.

					MACE
		Yeah, Lenny.  I have.

					LENNY
		It didn't stop you from loving them.
		Right?  Or understanding them, or
		being able to forgive them.

					MACE
		I guess.

					LENNY
		And it didn't stop you from wanting
		to protect them.  Did it?

					MACE
		No.  It didn't.

Lenny's eyes are brimming with tears.  He makes no attempt
to hide it... doesn't brush them away.

					LENNY
		When I was working Vice I saw every
		fucking depravity known to the human
		animal.  This city was one big
		toilet to me... I was lost, Mace.  I
		was in outer darkness.  Right before
		I left the force... got thrown
		out... I busted this scrawny strung-
		out little teeny-hooker.  She was
		just another runaway giving twenty
		dollar blowjobs to buy crank.  You
		know, another lost soul.  Her name
		was Faith.  She had these shoes with
		broken straps, and her knees were
		knocking together.

					MACE
		You never told me about this, Lenny.

					LENNY
		She was different... different from
		the other suck-zombies wandering up
		and down the boulevard.  There was a
		light in her eyes that I'd never
		seen before.  And she had this
		voice.  It was scary, all the pain
		coming out of that little body.
		Like she could take all the hurt and
		rage of the entire world and lift it
		up to heaven in one voice.  I
		promised her I'd help her.  That I'd
		always be there to protect her.
			   (long pause)
		So... see?  It doesn't much matter
		whether she loves me.  I still have
		to go.

Mace takes his face in her hands.  She kisses him lightly
on the cheek, where the tear-track is.
Then she nods, consigning them to their destinies.

					MACE
		Okay, Lenny.  Let's get ready.

CUT TO FIFTEEN MINUTES LATER.

ON LENNY, adjusting the knot of his tie.  He has put on
the suit he's been lugging around.  Mace comes out of
Cecile's bedroom and Cecile whistles approvingly.

					CECILE
		That dress fit you girl.  I'm never
		gonna see it again, now.

					MACE
		It's a little tight.

Mace is wearing a short black cocktail dress, very sheer.
It's cut low at the top and high at the bottom, showing
plenty of her muscular legs.  The high heels are doing
good things for her calves.
Mace's braided hair is loose and full, around her
shoulders, like the mane of a lion.  She is even wearing
lipstick and eye-makeup.
She looks hot.

Mace unselfconsciously hikes up the dress and adjusts the
Velcro on the elastic-holster strapped to her right thigh.
She is all business as she slips her .380 auto into the
holster and pulls the dress down.  You can't see the gun,
hidden between her upper thighs, just above the hemline.
In fact, it looks like she couldn't be concealing a
quarter anywhere on her body.

Lenny glances at Mace and does a double take.
She is a girl.  He is caught by a sudden realization of
her women-ness.  He sort of freezes for a second,
appraising her.
She scowls at him.

					MACE
		Come on, let's roll.

He slips the Glock into his waistband behind his right hip
and hurries to catch up with her as she goes out the door.

11:22 PM

IT IS THE MOTHER OF ALL PARTIES.  There must be 100,000
people in the closed streets around the Bonaventure.  Arc
lights sweep the sky.  There are two outdoor bandstands,
with live music pounding.  There are lasers, strobe-
lights.
People are literally dancing in the streets.
Huge projection video screens are set up all over the
place.
It looks like a U2 concert ten blocks long.  The idea is
to tie into a global event.  LA is connected to other
cities all over the world by satellite, sharing in the
celebration in different time zones.
The excitement has been building all evening as midnight
sweeps across the country toward the West Coast.
It is a multimedia extravaganza.

Lenny and Mace are stuck in stopped traffic a couple of
blocks away.
He is looking at his watch and cursing.  People are
streaming all around the cars.  They hear the loud thump
of music over a PA.  People pound on the Civic as they go
by, or press their faces against the glass.  A fight
breaks out between some drunken grunge-rockers, and people
scramble over the hood of the car to get out of the way.
Cops run in, chasing the combatants off into the swirling
mass of humanity.

Lenny and Mace bail out of the car, abandoning it in the
middle of the madness.  They head into the crowd on foot.
Mace leads the way, pushing through the crowd toward the
hotel.  We see her bodyguard training in the way she
positively moves people out of the way.

They will move through the various strata of society as
they work their way into the party's inner sanctum in the
huge tent which has been set up as a kind of ballroom
adjacent to the hotel.
The street crowd is jeans and T-shirts.  No admission.
Beer and hotdogs.  This of course is the vast majority of
the crowd, and we see all types, from yuppie couples to
black and Latino gangbangers cruising in posses.  We catch
a glimpse of Vita Minh and Tran's Vietnamese gang pushing
through the crowd.

Further in is a more exclusive section.  You pay to get
in.
There are tables and a huge buffet.  Champagne in plastic
glasses.
A dance floor.  Recorded music... as assortment of hits
from various decades, from swing through fifties, to top
40 of the seventies, eighties, and nineties.  This is an
upscale crowd, but not the creme.
At the center is the glitterati event... the LA New Year's
Ball.  Red carpets and papparazzi, movie stars and
politicians.  Lots of tuxes and gowns, diamonds sparking
back the spotlights of the video crews.

It is like all of LA, from the poorest to richest,
compressed down into a few square blocks.
There are cops everywhere.  Cops on motorcycles, cops in
cars, cops in riot gear.  One of the uniforms turns.
It is Steckler.  He says something into his rover.
Scanning the crowd.
Steckler doesn't see Mace and Lenny pass 50 feet behind
him as they approach the entrance to the ball.  But Mace
spots him, and points him out to Lenny.  Oh shit.  They
turn away when he glances their direction.

Lenny pulls out his flip-phone and calls Max, jamming a
finger in his ear to block out the din.

INSIDE THE BALL we see Max, wearing an ill-fitting tux.
The glitterati crowd is elbow to elbow.  He answers the
phone ringing in his pocket.
Yeah?  Lenny, where the hell are you, pal?
Max gives him a situation report.  He has positive eyeball
on Faith and Gant.  OFF MAX'S LOOK TO:

GANT'S TABLE, where Philo and Faith are sitting with music
and entertainment biz types.  The crowd in here is all
about power, money, and glitz.  Faith gulps her champagne.
She looks cold, uninterested.  She is wearing a low-cut
maroon gown, matching lipstick.  With her black hair and
pale skin she looks like an elegant vampire.  There is a
string of pearls around her throat.
Corto, Constance, Wade and Duncan are circulating nearby.
Max hangs up and shifts position so he can see Faith
clearly.

CU FAITH, turning toward Max.  Her eyes connect with his
through the passing parties.  She gives him a strange
little smile.
As if to say, I know you're watching me.

She turns to Gant, pulling him out of some animated record
business conversation, and tells him she can't stand the
charade any longer.  She's going up to the suite to get
drunk.

					GANT
		Fine.  I'll be up in fifteen
		minutes, so we can have a little New
		Year's toast.

					FAITH
		Take your time.

					GANT
		Constance will walk you up.

					FAITH
		Whatever.

Constance stay right next to Faith as she leaves.
Gant finds Max with his eyes.
He points with one finger.  As if to say you go too.
Max nods and saunters after Faith and Constance.

OUTSIDE, Lenny and Mace slip into lines with the flow of
people getting out of their limos, heading into the ball.
Lenny deftly swipes somebody's invitation as he and Mace
push past them in the line.
He reads it.  500 bucks a plate.  Unbelievable.
They get past the ushers checking tickets.
Then they smoothly slip past the guys with metal
detectors, who are buried with the volume of people.

Lenny scans the ballroom as they walk in.  The place is
huge.  It takes them a while to locate Gant's table.  No
Faith.  Lenny calls Max.

CUT TO MAX in the red-carpeted foyer of the hotel.  His
voice is low as he follows Faith some distance back.  He
tells Lenny that he has Faith in sight.  She's going up to
the suite.

What's the suite number?

1267.  But I need you to get in there and keep an eye on
Gant and his crew.  I'll get to Faith and bring her down
the firestairs.  Call me back.

Lenny and Mace are skirting the dance floor, keeping Gant
in sight across the room.  Lenny sees Corto coming toward
them.
Corto hasn't spotted them yet, so Lenny takes Mace in his
arms and dances with her, sort of hiding his head in her
mane as Corto passes.
Lenny is suddenly intensely aware of Mace's body pressed
against his.  He separates from her and they both
awkwardly step back.

Lenny points to a man sitting at a table with a bunch of
city hall types.  He is in his late fifties, stern and
flinty eyed, with military short hair.  Even in a tux he
looks like a Marine Corps general.  Or maybe a Calvinist
minister.

					LENNY
		See that guy.  The one with the
		ramrod up his ass?

					MACE
		Yeah.  You know him?

					LENNY
		That's Deputy Commissioner Palmer
		Strickland.  He used to be the head
		of Internal Affairs.  He's the guy
		that had me thrown off the force.

					MACE
		What are you thinking?

					LENNY
		I'm going to give him the tape.  I
		know this prick... his ass is so
		tight when he farts he makes a sound
		only dogs can hear.  If there is a
		conspiracy, this is the one cop I
		know ain't in it.

					MACE
		What if you're wrong?

					LENNY
		Then we'll be right where we are
		right now.

					MACE
		Fucked.

					LENNY
		That's right.  Hang here, I'm going
		to make a move.

Strickland excuses himself and leaves his table.
Lenny glances back at Mace, not wanting to separate too
far, then decides to follow Strickland.  Mace watches him
disappear into the crowd, then turns to scan the room, not
liking the way it's going.

WADE BEEMER spots Mace through the dancers and goes to
Joey Corto.  Corto scowls and they start toward her.  We
see Corto on a walkie to Duncan, who is elsewhere in the
room.
Mace turns and starts away through the swarming partiers.
Corto signals to Wade to separate and try to flank her in
a pincer movement.  The three of them moving with purpose
through the oblivious crowd.

Palmer Strickland goes into the men's room.  Lenny follows
him.
The men's room is a cavernous affair.  A few guys in tuxes
wandering around, pissing and checking their hair.
Strickland goes to a urinal.  Lenny goes to one that's two
over from him.

					LENNY
		Hello, Deputy Commissioner.

					STRICKLAND
		Hello.  Do I--?  Oh, Nero.  How
		appropriate that I should be talking
		to you in a toilet.

Lenny opens his coat and pulls out... his playback deck.
The one he sometimes clips to his belt like a walkman.
He reaches over and puts it on the top of Strickland's
urinal.

					LENNY
		There's a tape in there you need to
		see.  I mean right now.

					STRICKLAND
		This is illegal equipment.  With
		your record, you could do hard time
		for this.

					LENNY
		Same self-righteous prick I
		remember.  Look, this ain't a setup,
		there's no tricks, here.  I'm clean.
		See--

Lenny tugs painfully hard on his own hair, opens his
jacket, pulls up his shirt to show his bare chest... a
strange dance indicating he is not wired.  From
Strickland's perspective he seems like a loon... edgy and
paranoid.  Totally unstable.

					LENNY
		No wire.  No tricks.  Just look at
		the tape, Strickland.  Come on, you
		like surveillance, you've seen
		plenty of these things.  Just go in
		the stall right now and hit PLAY.

A young cop steps up behind Lenny.

					YOUNG COP
			   (to Strickland)
		Sir, is there a problem here?

Lenny turns.  Oh shit.  He edges toward the door.  The cop
is looking at Strickland like... do I grab him?

					STRICKLAND
		Nero, maybe you better stick around
		for a while until I can look into
		this more fully.

					LENNY
		I'll pass.

The cop takes his arm.  Lenny twists viciously out of the
grip, pushing the cop away from him, and lunges for the
door.
He makes it through and sprints into the crowd, with the
young cop charging after him.

STRICKLAND picks up the deck and scowls at it.  His
expression is opaque.

ON LENNY, sprinting through the busy kitchen, where scores
of cooks and servers are bustling around, cleaning up for
dinner.
He ducks into a huge walk-in cooler.  He's ditched the
cop, so he pulls out his flip-phone, punching up Mace's
number.

MACE answers in the ballroom crowd.  He tells her he
thinks he may have screwed up bad.  Before she can answer,
Mace is grabbed from behind by DUNCAN.  He gets her in a
good tight come-along.  Like any good security person, the
hold is not so obvious that the party around them is
disrupted.

LENNY now can't get an answer from Mace.  He thinks the
call broke up, so he dials again.

CUT TO Mace's phone ringing, lying on the ballroom floor.

MACE IS WALKED around behind the bandstand.  Corto and
Wade meet them there.  Joey Corto walks up to her, looking
mean and smug.  The stitches on his nose and the bruised
swelling are a reminder of his last run in with her.

Mace twists one hand free and snaps it out in a blur.  Her
open palm breaks Corto's nose with an audible crunch.
Corto screams and grabs his face, reeling back.

					CORTO
		Aw, not the fucking nose!!

She slams her foot down on Duncan's instep and snaps her
head back simultaneously in a reverse head-butt.  He
manages to keep the hold, so Mace drives her free hand
back into the approximate position of his nuts.  Even
though Duncan looks like he bench-presses Buicks, this has
the desired effect.  Mace jerks away from him, shoving him
back through a buffet table, just as Wade moves in.
Suddenly she's standing there with her dress hiked up and
her pistol straight-armed, with the muzzle right in his
face.

Wade backs up.

					WADE
		Hey, enjoy the party.

Mace spins and sprints through dumbfounded glitterati, her
gun innocuously tight to her side.
She makes it to one wall of the ballroom tent, and dives
under.

OUTSIDE she finds herself amongst the street crowd, who
don't even notice her.  She holsters the gun and moves
away from possible pursuit.

LENNY works his way back into the ballroom.  Sees Gant is
gone from the table.  He's completely lost track of him.
And there's no sign of Mace.  He tries to call Max.  No
answer.  Tries again.  Starting to panic.  Nothing.  Fuck.

CUT TO LENNY in the hotel elevator.  He is
hyperventilating.
It's all going wrong.  The doors open on the twelfth
floor.
He walks out.
Standing at the corner, where she can watch the elevators
and the corridors, is Constance.
Lenny doesn't break stride.  Just walks toward her.
He's tipped over.  He's not afraid anymore.  He's pissed
off.
She moves toward him.

					LENNY
		Constance, I don't want any trouble
		here.

We think he's starting the usual negotiation.  But when he
gets in range he lets fly with a line-drive right,
straight into Constance's face.  We're talking a John
Wayne haymaker punch.
She staggers back, surprised and dazed, and he knees her
right in the gut as hard as he can.  Payback's a bitch,
Constance.
She drops to her knees, winded.  He draws his Glock and
puts it behind her ear, pulling a pair of handcuffs off
his belt.
Okay, we're starting to believe he might have been a cop
once.

CUT TO STAIRWELL.  Lenny finishes handcuffing Constance to
the stair railing.

CUT TO MACE, moving through the insane crowd.  She is
trying to work her way around to a service entrance back
into the hotel.
The sky explodes with purple light as huge fireworks go
off overhead.  A crack like thunder follows.  Then more
flashes.
The countdown to midnight has begun.

The party is building to a crescendo.  It seems to have a
surreal, nightmarish quality.  She passes a mime in a
clock suit, who keeps adjusting the hands closer to
midnight.

Mace is scanning warily as she moves.  She turns and sees
Engelman in the crowd, not twenty feet from her.  He is
looking right at her.  Not recognizing her for a moment.
Then... he realizes who she is.
He goes for his gun and Mace pushed people out of the way,
breaking into a run.  Engelman charges after her, pulling
out his rover to call Steckler.

LENNY MOVES DOWN THE CORRIDOR to the suite at the end.  He
reaches the door.  1267.  Sees that the door is ajar.
Always a bad sign.  Lenny apprehensively enters the suite,
with his gun two-handed in the low-ready position.  His
heart is pounding.
It is a luxurious corner suite with big balconies and an
incredible view of the high-rise district.  The lights are
out, and the rooms are silent.

Lenny can barely breathe from the tension as he moves
through the living room.  He notices the one balcony door
is open.  The roar of the crowd comes in like the sound of
surf from far below.  Fireworks explode across the sky,
and the cheers from below sound like screams.

His feet crunch on broken glass... a shattered champagne
bottle.
A lamp is knocked over.  He reaches the door to the
bedroom and looks in.  The room is empty.  The bed is
unmade, the bedspread and sheet pulled off.  One whole
wall of the bedroom is mirrored.
Lenny looks back at the living room.
Suddenly he notices something on the coffee table.
It is an envelope, with NERO hand-printed on it.
He is drawn to it, hypnotically.
He opens it... and a squid-tape falls out into his hand.
This is like some kind of surreal dream.

STECKLER AND ENGELMAN are stalking Mace through the crowd.
Steckler catches a glimpse of her running and he charges
after her, like a bull, with his gun drawn.  He hammers
through anybody that gets in his way.  Mace, sprinting
through the crowd, sees an apparition ahead of her... a
guy wearing Death's Head makeup and a black shroud,
carrying a huge cardboard scythe in one hand and a doll
(New Year's Baby) in the other.  Death watches her pass.

LENNY, moving like he is in a trance, puts the trodes on
his head.
TIGHT ON THE PLAY BUTTON as his finger punches down.

IN POV we approach room 1267.  It is familiar
monochromatic vision of the killer.  Our hands open the
door quietly with a key-card.  We enter the suite.
Some of the lights are on.
We see Faith out on the balcony.  Watching the sea of
madness below.  She comes back in, carrying an empty
champagne glass.  She grabs a bottle off an end-table and
up-ends it.  Empty.  She hurls it across the room, and it
shatters against the wall.
Faith grabs the pearl necklace and rips it away from her
throat in a paroxysm of rage and self-loathing.

We approach her, standing with her back to us, in her
misery.  Closer.  Only a few feet now.  She whips around,
startled.  Gasping loudly.
But then... she recognizes the Wearer.
Oh, I didn't hear you come in, she says.
THE RECORDING STOPS, in a blast of static.
Lenny jerks at the discontinuity in the input, he is so
keyed up.

THE RECORDING RESTARTS:
A new image resolves out of static.
Faith is pushed roughly down on the bed.  We climb onto
the bed, straddling her, and she gasps.  We turn her onto
her back.
She has been blindfolded.
The Wearer goes SSSHHH.  A warning.  Like the hiss of a
snake.
Our hands seize her wrists and handcuff them one by one to
the iron frame at the head of the bed.
The hands go out of sight and then reappear holding a set
of trodes.
They are placed on her head... the spidery gecko-hand
device almost disappearing in her black hair.

LENNY'S guts have turned to water.  He is shaking his head
in horror, going No, no, no...

IN POV we see one of our hands come up holding the yellow
plastic razor knife.  The blade clicks out to its full
length.
Our hands reach down and slowly slit her dress open,
starting between her breast and going down out of sight.
She groans, squirming away from the cold knife.
The killer's hands open the material, exposing her white
body, which in this peculiar vision is pure ivory.  The
knife deftly cuts off her panties.
We unbuckle our pants and reach for her, grasping her
hips, pulling her to us.

ON LENNY, gagging.  Overcome by revulsion and horror,
mixing obscenely with the pleasure flooding into him from
the tape.

BACK TO POV as we pull our belt out of the beltloops of
our pants and wrap it around Faith's neck.  Faith begins
to pant in tiny rapid breaths.  We tighten the belt
slowly.

LENNY tears the trodes from his head.  He clutches his
stomach, gasping for breath.  Carrying the playback deck,
he staggers into the bedroom... to the bed.  He stares
wildly around the room.
Beyond the bed he spots a shape.
It is covered in the bedsheet, but it is clearly a human
form, propped up against the wall on the far side of the
nightstand.
He missed it in his earlier look from the bedroom door.

Lenny moves around the bed and reaches down to the foot of
the figure, grasping the edge of the sheet with a
trembling hand.
With horrified apprehension he pulls on the sheet.
It reveals the head and upper body of...
Philo Gant.

The last thing he expected.  Lenny leans close and sees
that Gant is breathing shallowly, but his eyes are vacant.
He looks like Tran did.  Lenny sits on the bed and puts
the trodes back on.
The fireworks and screaming outside sound like some
nightmarish war, like the sound of the world coming to an
end.
But all Lenny cares about is what's on the tape.
He hits PLAY.

THE POV CONTINUES where is left off.  Faith's body lurches
with the Wearer's thrusts.  His hand tightens the belt.
Lenny feels the climax building.
Faith's body shakes as the killer comes... she cries out
herself, in pain... or is it?  The killer's hand releases
the belt.  We see Faith gasping for breath and moaning.
Suddenly the POV whips sideways to the mirrored closet
doors along one wall.  In the mirror is a reflection of
the bed and on it Faith.  And on her... Max.
Still wearing his tux shirt, his pants down, her legs
pulled up around him.  They are both gasping for breath,
spent, following their shattering orgasms.  He runs his
hands over her sweat-slick belly.

LENNY is stunned beyond his power to imagine.
He does not have the strength or the will to stop the
tape.

IN POV we see Max's hands remove her blindfold.  She looks
right at us, still gasping with the aftershocks of her
pleasure.
Max's hands undo the handcuffs, freeing her.  She reaches
for us, her eyes glittering with sated lust.
We slump forward onto her, and her face fills the POV.

					FAITH
		I love you.

Lenny is reeling with these revelations.  His best friend
is the killer.  And the woman he loved loves him.
But the tape is not over...

THE POV CONTINUES as Max's eyes whip around in response to
a sound behind them.  The bedroom door is opening.  Philo
Gant is standing there with a shocked-expression.
Like lightning we are off the bed, snatching our .45 from
the nightstand and whipping around... putting the muzzle
right in Gant's face.  We pull him roughly across the
room, too stunned to resist.

He is cursing Faith, cursing us.
We slam him back against the mirror wall the jam the
muzzle of the gun right in his mouth... a deadly gag.
Using the gun we push him down until he is sitting on the
floor with his back to the mirror.

Our eyes whip to Faith.  She is freaking.  Our eyes snap
back and forth between Philo and her.  We see Max's
reflection in the mirror as he talks to her, talking fast.

					MAX
		This piece of puke hired me to kill
		you, baby.  Do you believe that?
		Isn't that right, Philo?  You
		pinhead.

					FAITH
		Why?

					MAX
		Why do you think?  You were starting
		to jam him with this Jeriko thing.
		He knew it was going to cost him for
		you to keep your mouth shut, and
		keep costing, so...

					FAITH
		But he was going to drop my
		recording deal, and pull the video,
		and kick me out with nothing.  I had
		to do something.

					MAX
		No question.  Bring me the trodes,
		baby.  Come on, quick.

					FAITH
		What're you going to do?

Max doesn't answer.  He puts the trodes on Philo's head
and pulls something out of his pocket.  It is a booster
box.
He plugs it into the deck.  He takes the gain control and
cranks it all the way up.  He's setting up a cook-off.
Gant's eyes go wide when he figures that out.

					FAITH
		You can't just kill him.

					MAX
		Yeah?  Well, he was going to kill
		you.  And this ratfuck paid to have
		Iris killed, to save his own sorry
		ass.

Gant tries to protest at that point but Max jams the gun
deep into his throat, up to the trigger guard, choking off
his words.

					MAX
		You shut the fuck up, right now, I'm
		gonna pull this fuckin trigger!

K-BANG!
Faith shrieks, thinking Max shot him.  But it's just the
start of the fireworks outside (remember all this has
already happened relative to Lenny entering the suite).

					MAX
		He's totally paranoid.  No telling
		what he might do.  Too much watching
		will do that to you.  Look, baby, I
		don't see any choice here.  It's now
		or never, the guy is a known input
		junkie, so a little OD won't
		surprise anybody.  And it ain't
		murder anyway.  He'll still be alive

					FAITH
		My God.

We don't know if her reaction is to the horror of what is
about to happen, or to the realization that she has the
capacity to let it happen.

					MAX
		I love you baby, you know I do, and
		it's the only way we can be together.

She stares, transfixed, as Max reaches for the deck.
He punches PLAY.  She doesn't try and stop him.
Max puts his hand over Philo's mouth to muffle his screams
as the input hits his brain like a screaming chainsaw of
static from Hell.
The screaming outside, the pandemonium, give the moment a
special madness.

The POV turns, looking out the window... staring fixedly
at burst of brilliant fireworks.  Like the fireworks
inside Gant's head.
THE TAPE ENDS.

Lenny takes off the trodes.  He is wrung out, drenched
with sweat.
We see that there is a figure standing in the doorway
behind him.
Lenny turns, not surprised to see Max there with his .45
aimed at Lenny's chest.  Max's surgical gloves look
incongruous with his tux.

					MAX
		Don't make any assumptions about our
		friendship, Lenny.

					LENNY
		No.  I suppose not.  Given the
		historical perspective.

Max moves up to him cautiously, and takes the Glock out of
Lenny's waistband.  Lenny stands up, slowly.

					MAX
		I'll have that.  Glock 23.  Nice.

					LENNY
		Where's Faith?

					MAX
		I sent her back down to the party.
		I figured I'd wait up here until you
		killed Gant?

					LENNY
		What makes you think I'm gonna kill
		Gant?

Max looks out the window at the fireworks.  Waits for a
flash, knowing the bang will follow.  Keeping his own .45
on Lenny, he aims Lenny's Glock at the catatonic Gant.
BLAM!  One right into Philo's forehead.  The crack of
thunder from the fireworks masks the sound.

					MAX
		You just did.

					LENNY
		Jesus!

					MAX
		You know, statistically that's the
		second most common word people say
		right before they die.  Shit being
		number one.

Max sticks Lenny's Glock in his waistband, keeping his own
.45 trained on Lenny.

					LENNY
		So... I killed Gant, then you ran
		in, being on his payroll, and shot
		me.

					MAX
		That's pretty much the way it
		happened.

CUT TO FAITH in the living room, moving silently up to the
edge of the doorframe.  She looks through the crack
between the door and the jam.  Her POV: Max with the gun
on Lenny.

					LENNY
		Wait a minute.  Now I'm remembering.
		I killed Iris too, didn't I?

					MAX
		That's right.  They'll find the
		snuff tape at your apartment.  The
		original.  The one I left at the
		club for you was a copy.

					LENNY
		Was I a really busy guy?  Did I do
		Tran too?

					MAX
		No.  Those two whacko cops musta
		taken care a that for you.  Saved
		you a stop.

Lenny drops the cutesy role.

					LENNY
		So why Max... why didya have to do
		Iris?  She never hurt anybody.

CU FAITH, reacting to this.

					MAX
		Picture it... I feel I gotta share
		this with somebody.  It's too
		perfect.

					LENNY
		I won't say anything.

					MAX
		I know.  So picture it... I'm
		working for this puke, right?  And
		he says he'll pay me quite large to
		do the hooker, but also I gotta do
		his bitch girlfriend because she's
		totally out of control.  Only he
		doesn't know about me and Faith.  So
		I say to myself, if I turn the job
		down, he just gets somebody else.
		And I lose Faith... to coin a
		phrase.  So I tell him sure, why
		not, but I can't just cap your
		girlfriend pal, she's too well
		known, we gotta set up a chump.  And
		who better than her ex-boyfriend, a
		know criminal, who's been seen
		harassing her in public many times.

					LENNY
		And who was, regrettably, also your
		best fucking friend!

					MAX
		No plan is perfect, Lenny.

					LENNY
		So you must be so pleased.  I
		followed your jellybean trail right
		here, like a good little chump.

					MAX
		You got froggy on me a couple times.
		But I thought that riff about the
		Death Squad and all the conspiracy
		paranoia was pretty good.  I hadda
		keep you from bringing the cops into
		it.

					LENNY
		So it was just those two loose
		cannons running around.

					MAX
		Yeah, covering their butts.  Pretty
		zany, huh?  Cheer up, Lenny.
		World's gonna end in ten minutes
		anyway.  Nothing means nothing.  You
		know that.  It's all shit.  Look
		around... the whole planet's in
		total fucking chaos.  You gotta take
		what you can, while you can.  'Cause
		some shitbird can come up and put a
		fuckin .22 in the back a your head
		any second.  Jeez, am I ranting
		again?  Gotta watch that.

					LENNY
		How did you hook up with Faith?

					MAX
		This bonehead hires me a month ago
		to eyeball her, right?  But Faith
		knows me from you, right, so she
		comes up to me and says, hey, Max,
		why you following me and I say, I'll
		buy you a drink and explain, and she
		says...

					FAITH
		So, do you enjoy watching me?

Max turns and sees her in the doorway.

					MAX
		You were supposed to go downstairs,
		baby.

					FAITH
		I know.  I don't always do exactly
		what I'm told.  So I said, do you
		enjoy watching me?  And you said --
		come on, Max--

					MAX
		I said, yeah.  I'd even do it for
		free.

					FAITH
		Uh huh.  And I said, that's good,
		because I like the feeling of
		someone watching me.  I acquired the
		taste from Lenny.

Lenny looks between Faith and Max, feeling like the
asshole of the western world.  Faith moves up close to
Max.  She puts her hands lightly on his shoulders,
caressing them.
Max grins, realizing she is 100 percent with him.

					MAX
			   (to Lenny)
		And then she said since we're going
		to be spending so much time
		together--

					FAITH
		We might as well make the best of
		it.

Faith runs her hands appreciatively over Max's shoulders
and arms.
Then, in an eyeblink, she grabs his forearm in both hands
and deflects the gun.

					FAITH
		Lenny!!

Lenny jumps in, wrestling Max for the gun.
Faith pulls the Glock out of Max's waistband and throws it
across the room.

					MAX
		Fucking bitch!!

BLAM!  BLAM!  Max fires wildly, trying to hit Lenny, who
is just barely keeping the muzzle out of his face.
Faith grabs Max's hair, trying to pull him away...
His "hair" comes off in her hands.  A prosthetic wig,
containing the squid-net array.
Max's head is shaved to a Sinead O'Connor stubble.
He looks demonic, grimacing with effort as he struggles
with Lenny.
He continues firing...
The shots hit the mirrors.  ANGLES of the reflected images
of them shattering.  Faith screaming, reflected... her
face fragmenting into shards.

Max is stronger and heavier than Lenny, but Lenny has one
advantage:
Max has managed to make him really, really angry.
Lenny gives a guttural cry and drives Max backward,
slamming him into the doorframe.  They tumble together
into the living room, falling together over the couch.
Lenny pounds Max's hands against the glass coffee table,
shattering it.  He forces Max's hand along a glass edge,
cutting it, and Max drop the gun.  Lenny reaches for it,
but Max kicks it away a split-second before his hand
touches it.
It skitters under the couch, out of play.
He punches Lenny brutally in the face, then in the gut,
and grabs him with both hands.  He hurls him against the
wall.
Lenny staggers off the wall into several vicious punches
form Max.
We feel the tide turning.  Lenny goes down to one knee.
Max pulls out his knife and flicks it open.
Lenny throws a lamp.
Max ducks and charges through.
Lenny spins away from the downthrust.
The knife embeds itself in his shoulder blade, sunk in to
the bone.
Lenny punches Max in the throat and jerks away, pulling
the knife handle out of Max's hand.

Max tackles him and they crash together through a sliding
glass door onto the balcony.  Explosion of flying glass.

Max pulls a dazed Lenny to his feet and rushes him
backward toward the railing.  At the last instant, Lenny
twists with all his strength and spins Max into the
railing, using his weight against him.
He pushes hard and Max topples.

As he is going over, Max grabs Lenny's tie, pulling him
over.
Max is dangling 12 stories above the oblivious crowd, his
entire weight hanging from Lenny's tie.
Lenny has one arm and one foot hooked around the railing,
and he is being strangled by the tie.
Lenny is starting to black out.
In agony he gropes with his free hand to his own shoulder
blade, finding the handle of the knife.  He jerks it out
of himself.
Max sees it coming a split second before it happens.
Lenny slashes the knife across the tie, just above Max's
hands.
Max takes the express elevator to hell.
He hits 12 stories down, on top of a video truck.

Lenny stands there panting, bleeding down the back of his
jacket.
Faith runs to the railing and looks down.
All the strength goes out of her legs.  She sags to the
floor, her face crumpling in tears.  She begins a
hopeless, lost, keening sound.
Fireworks continue to boom across the sky.

Lenny looks down at her, gazing at the object of his
quest.  She looks up at him, her wet eyes seemingly at the
bottom of a deep well from which he cannot save her.
He turns and walks away.

DOWN BELOW, in the madness of the crowd, we move with
Steckler as he searches for Mace.  He sees her from
behind, walking near one of the stages.  He moves up
behind her, aiming his pistol at the back of her head.
She turns and--
It isn't Mace.  Another girl in a similar dress.
Steckler curses and looks around.

Engelman catches a glimpse of Mace running.  He points to
her position and Steckler charges after her.  He has his
baton laid back along his forearm and is clubbing people
out of the way as he runs.

Mace kicks off her high heels and sprints barefoot through
the crowd, pushing people out of her way.  Strobe-lights
from the stage and flashes from the fireworks give the
crowd a nightmarish look.
Steckler fires at her.  People drop, their screams drowned
out by the pandemonium.  The gunshots don't register above
the concussions from the fireworks.  No one notices the
shootings.
Steckler continues to fire, missing her as people block
his shots.
Mace won't fire back in the crowd.

ON STECKLER, coming to a stop at the base of a lighting
tower.
He has lost sight of her.  He starts to reload his pistol.
Mace comes up to him silently from behind the tower and
hammer punches him behind the ear with the butt of her
pistol.
Steckler comes around with a roar, slamming the baton
across her forearm.  Her .380 clatters to the ground.
Mace bodyslams him back against the steel tower, smashing
her palm up under his chin.  His head raps off the metal.
Mace is like a she-panther.
She rips the baton out of his hands and cracks him once
across the windpipe.  He drops to his knees, gagging and
unable to breathe.
A shot hits the metal space-frame next to her head.  She
spins to see Engelman, charging toward her.  Before he can
fire again she drops behind the kneeling, gasping
Steckler, using him as a human wall.
She clamps an arm around his neck, controlling him, and
pulls his tazer from his belt.  She shoots Engelman in the
chest from 8 feet.
He convulses and drops instantly to the pavement, flopping
like a fish.  She holds the current on him while she goes
over and kicks his gun away.

She takes Engelman's cuffs from his belt.  Steckler glares
at her through the blood running into his eyes.  She
raises the baton.

					MACE
		All the way down!  RIGHT NOW!!

He slowly drops to the pavement, face-down.  Now that
she's got them both proned out, she quickly handcuffs one
of Steckler's hands to one of Engelman's.

The crowd partiers stare.  Can't believe what they're
seeing.
Mace takes Steckler's cuffs and attaches his other wrist
to the base of the tower.  That's when THREE LAPD COPS in
riot gear burst through the surrounding crowd and see a
black girl crouching over two of LA's finest with a police
baton.  The cops advance toward her.

					MACE
		Wait.  Let me tell you what's going
		on here--

The nearest shoots her with a tazer.
She spasms and goes to her hands and knees.
One of the cops kicks her down.
She cries out, trying to explain, but she can't get the
breath as the batons start to fall.
The crowd around them watches fascinated, gaping.
Mace sees another cop arrive and start to uncuff Steckler.

					MACE
		NO!!  NO!!

They crack her with their batons, telling her to stay
down.
Another one kicks her in the stomach.

A BLACK KID in the crowd leaps onto one of the kicking
cops.
And then they come out of the crowd... one, then three,
then half a dozen.  Just normal people... black, white,
Latino people... that can't watch this shit happen any
more.
They jump the cops, swarming them, wrestling them down.
It becomes a brawl.
Then cops are running in from everywhere.  We see the
trigger point of a full-scale riot.  Cops in full riot-
gear, with Lexan shields, push the crowd back, clearing a
space.
A helicopter XENON comes straight down from above, like
the divine light of God.

Mace hugs herself, at the center of it, unable to get up.
Within seconds there are 20 cops there, and more on the
way, forming a human wall.  They get the crowd settled
down.
Through the phalanx of riot cops comes Palmer Strickland
and several ranking officers.
He surveys the scene.  Strickland looks down at Mace and
then at Steckler and Engelman, who are getting to their
knees, though still handcuffed to each other and the steel
tower.

					STRICKLAND
			   (to the nearest
			    officers)
		These two are under arrest for
		murder.

Strickland looks Steckler in the eye and holds up Lenny's
squid tape.
Steckler and Engelman react, knowing they are over.

					STRICKLAND
		And get some medical attention for
		this woman.

The helicopter xenon gives the whole moment an other-
worldly quality.  Like they are in some celestial court of
judgment.

Lenny pushes through from behind Strickland.  He runs to
Mace and kneels next to her.

					LENNY
		Are you okay?

She is still dazed.  A trickle of blood runs down her
face.
She nods weakly and reaches for him.  They hug, then they
both wince in pain.
Mace sees the cops running in to arrest Steckler and
Engelman.
One of them unhooks Steckler from the tower.

					MACE
		I got 'em, Lenny.

					LENNY
		Mace the ace.  You're amazing.

Engelman lunges, grabbing a gun from the holster of the
closest cop.
He waves them back with it.
Then puts it in his mouth and fires.
He topples against Steckler, spraying him with his
spurting blood.
Steckler clutches him, lowering him to the ground, bathing
in his blood.
You see him going insane, right at that moment.
His face is bloodstreaked and suddenly demonic.

Steckler, the street-monster cop, RISES IN SLOW MOTION.
His glare is fixed on Lenny and Mace.  He has Engelman's
gun in one blood-drenched hand.
Lifting the dead weight of Engelman by the handcuff, he
begins to drag the body, lurching toward Mace.  He keeps
the pistol down along his side.
Steckler exists at the center of a circle of cops who
don't know what to do.  He has a gun so they can't rush
him.  But he's a cop, so they can't shoot him.  Several
officers are shouting at him to drop the weapon.
You barely hear them over the pandemonium of the crowd,
the helicopter, the fireworks.

					LENNY
		SHOOT!!

Like a scene from a nightmare the blood-drenched Steckler,
completely unhinged, lurches toward them.  Engelman's body
slides over the ground, leaving a snail-track of blood a
foot wide.

					STECKLER
		YOU FUCKING NIGGER BITCH!!

He raises Engelman's pistol and points it at her.
Lenny throws himself across her, turning his back to take
the fire.
POW POW POW!
The LAPD executes Steckler in a hail of fire.
He drops like a sack of cement.
Lenny realizes he is alive.  He faints.
Mace shakes him, thinking he is shot.  He opens his eyes.

					LENNY
		Yeah, what?

CUT TO SEVERAL MINUTES LATER.  Mace and Lenny are being
escorted through the crowd by Strickland and a number of
cops.  They are jostled and shoved by the rowdy mob, who
aren't paying any attention to the cops passing through.
They pass DEATH, with the (plastic) BABY still in his
arms.
Lenny pushes the scythe out of the way so they can get
past.

					MACE
		Are we under arrest?

					LENNY
		Naw.  They just have to ask us a
		few questions... for about six
		hours.

					MACE
		Where's Faith?

					LENNY
		Faith who?

We pass the CLOCK MIME, who smiles at them and puts his
hands at midnight.  We hear a roar passing through the
crowd.  A huge chanting and cheering, that becomes
thunderous.
Lenny and Mace look around... the wonder of it sinking in.

30 seconds till midnight.  Until the beginning of the 21st
century.

					MACE
		Looks like we made it, Lenny.

Lenny starts to grin.  He taps Strickland on the shoulder
and signals for him to stop.  All around them people begin
to shout the countdown to midnight.

					CROWD
		TEN!  NINE!  EIGHT!...

Lenny shouts with them.

					LENNY (AND CROWD)
		SEVEN!  SIX!  FIVE!...

Mace grins at him and starts to chant too.

					MACE
		FOUR!  THREE!  TWO!  ONE!  HAPPY NEW
		YEAR!!

The exultation of the moment flows through them as they
lift their voice with the crowd in a great cheer.
Balloons are released, confetti and streamers fly in a
blizzard.  Couples grab each other and kiss passionately.
Lenny sees all these people around him kissing.

He and Mace look at each other.  It floods through Lenny's
brain like a burst of fireworks.  Nothing ever felt more
right.
He grabs her and plants one on her like in the movies.
She grabs his head and won't let him break even if he
wanted to, which he doesn't.
Strickland rolls his eyes and waits.  Looks at his watch.
Escorted by a couple of cops, Faith passes near them.  She
is in handcuffs and her eyes are dull.
She sees Lenny and Mace, as she passes, but they don't see
her.

12:01 AM, JANUARY 1, 2000

PULL BACK AND UP as Lenny and Mace stay locked together,
while the cops wait for them, and the world begins again.

					THE END
